docs/src/pages/examples/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Examples List: Workflows, Agents, RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: "Explore practical examples of AI development with Mastra, including text generation, RAG implementations, structured outputs, and multi-modal interactions. Learn how to build AI applications using OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google Gemini."
---

import { CardItems, CardItem, CardTitle } from "../../components/example-cards";
import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Examples

The Examples section is a short list of example projects demonstrating basic AI engineering with Mastra, including text generation, structured output, streaming responses, and retrieval‐augmented generation (RAG).

<CardItems titles={["Agent", "Workflow", "Memory", "RAG", "Evals", "Voice"]} items={
  {Agent: [
      {
        title: "Agent with System Prompt",
        href: "/examples/agents/system-prompt",
      },
      {
        title: "Agentic Workflows",
        href: "/examples/agents/agentic-workflows",
      },
      {
        title: "Using a Tool",
        href: "/examples/agents/using-a-tool",
      },
      {
        title: "Hierarchical Multi-Agent System",
        href: "/examples/agents/hierarchical-multi-agent",
      },
      {
        title: "Multi-Agent Workflow",
        href: "/examples/agents/multi-agent-workflow",
      },
      {
        title: "Bird Checker",
        href: "/examples/agents/bird-checker",
      },
    ],
    Workflow: [
      {
        title: "Creating a Workflow",
        href: "/examples/workflows/creating-a-workflow",
      },
      {
        title: "Using a Tool as a Step",
        href: "/examples/workflows/using-a-tool-as-a-step",
      },
      { title: "Parallel Steps", href: "/examples/workflows/parallel-steps" },
      {
        title: "Sequential Steps",
        href: "/examples/workflows/sequential-steps",
      },
      { title: "Branching Paths", href: "/examples/workflows/branching-paths" },
      {
        title: "Cyclical Dependencies",
        href: "/examples/workflows/cyclical-dependencies",
      },
      {
        title: "Suspend and Resume",
        href: "/examples/workflows/suspend-and-resume",
      },
      { title: "Calling an Agent", href: "/examples/workflows/calling-agent" },
    ],
    Memory:[
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with LibSQL",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-libsql",
      },
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with Postgres",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-pg",
      },
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with Upstash",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-upstash",
      },
      {
        title: "Streaming Working Memory (quickstart)",
        href: "/examples/memory/streaming-working-memory",
      },
      {
        title: "Streaming Working Memory (advanced)",
        href: "/examples/memory/streaming-working-memory-advanced",
      },
    ],
  RAG: [
      { title: "Chunk Text", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-text" },
      { title: "Chunk Markdown", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-markdown" },
      { title: "Chunk HTML", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-html" },
      { title: "Chunk JSON", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-json" },
      { title: "Embed Text Chunk", href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-text-chunk" },
      { title: "Embed Chunk Array", href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-chunk-array" },
      { title: "Adjust Chunk Size", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/adjust-chunk-size" },
      {
        title: "Adjust Chunk Delimiters",
        href: "/examples/rag/chunking/adjust-chunk-delimiters",
      },
      {
        title: "Metadata Extraction",
        href: "/examples/rag/embedding/metadata-extraction",
      },
      {
        title: "Hybrid Vector Search",
        href: "/examples/rag/query/hybrid-vector-search",
      },
      {
        title: "Embed Text with Cohere",
        href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-text-with-cohere",
      },
      {
        title: "Upsert Embeddings",
        href: "/examples/rag/upsert/upsert-embeddings",
      },
      { title: "Retrieve Results", href: "/examples/rag/query/retrieve-results" },
      { title: "Using the Vector Query Tool", href: "/examples/rag/usage/basic-rag" },
      {
        title: "Optimizing Information Density",
        href: "/examples/rag/usage/cleanup-rag",
      },
      { title: "Metadata Filtering", href: "/examples/rag/usage/filter-rag" },
      {
        title: "Re-ranking Results",
        href: "/examples/rag/rerank/rerank",
      },
      {
        title: "Re-ranking Results with Tools",
        href: "/examples/rag/rerank/rerank-rag",
      },
      { title: "Chain of Thought Prompting", href: "/examples/rag/usage/cot-rag" },
      {
        title: "Structured Reasoning with Workflows",
        href: "/examples/rag/usage/cot-workflow-rag",
      },
      { title: "Graph RAG", href: "/examples/rag/usage/graph-rag" },
    ],
  Evals: [
    {
      title: "Answer Relevancy",
      href: "/examples/evals/answer-relevancy",
    },
    {
      title: "Bias",
      href: "/examples/evals/bias",
    },
    {
      title: "Completeness",
      href: "/examples/evals/completeness",
    },
    {
      title: "Content Similarity",
      href: "/examples/evals/content-similarity",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Position",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-position",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Precision",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-precision",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Relevancy",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-relevancy",
    },
    {
      title: "Contextual Recall",
      href: "/examples/evals/contextual-recall",
    },
    {
      title: "Custom Eval with LLM as a Judge",
      href: "/examples/evals/custom-eval",
    },
    {
      title: "Faithfulness",
      href: "/examples/evals/faithfulness",
    },
    {
      title: "Hallucination",
      href: "/examples/evals/hallucination",
    },
    {
      title: "Keyword Coverage",
      href: "/examples/evals/keyword-coverage",
    },
    {
      title: "Prompt Alignment",
      href: "/examples/evals/prompt-alignment",
    },
    {
      title: "Summarization",
      href: "/examples/evals/summarization",
    },
    {
      title: "Textual Difference",
      href: "/examples/evals/textual-difference",
    },
    {
      title: "Tone Consistency", 
      href: "/examples/evals/tone-consistency",
    },
    {
      title: "Toxicity",
      href: "/examples/evals/toxicity",
    },
    {
      title: "Word Inclusion",
      href: "/examples/evals/word-inclusion",
    },
  ],
  Voice: [
    {
      title: "Text to Speech",
      href: "/examples/voice/text-to-speech",
    },
  ],
}}>

</CardItems>

Commit message:

[MASTRA-2533] Speech to text example (#3008)
Example using speech to text.

Transcribe voice memos and create a summary of all the notes thus far

docs/src/pages/examples/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Examples List: Workflows, Agents, RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: "Explore practical examples of AI development with Mastra, including text generation, RAG implementations, structured outputs, and multi-modal interactions. Learn how to build AI applications using OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google Gemini."
---

import { CardItems, CardItem, CardTitle } from "../../components/example-cards";
import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

# Examples

The Examples section is a short list of example projects demonstrating basic AI engineering with Mastra, including text generation, structured output, streaming responses, retrieval‐augmented generation (RAG), and voice.

<CardItems titles={["Agent", "Workflow", "Memory", "RAG", "Evals", "Voice"]} items={
  {Agent: [
      {
        title: "Agent with System Prompt",
        href: "/examples/agents/system-prompt",
      },
      {
        title: "Agentic Workflows",
        href: "/examples/agents/agentic-workflows",
      },
      {
        title: "Using a Tool",
        href: "/examples/agents/using-a-tool",
      },
      {
        title: "Hierarchical Multi-Agent System",
        href: "/examples/agents/hierarchical-multi-agent",
      },
      {
        title: "Multi-Agent Workflow",
        href: "/examples/agents/multi-agent-workflow",
      },
      {
        title: "Bird Checker",
        href: "/examples/agents/bird-checker",
      },
    ],
    Workflow: [
      {
        title: "Creating a Workflow",
        href: "/examples/workflows/creating-a-workflow",
      },
      {
        title: "Using a Tool as a Step",
        href: "/examples/workflows/using-a-tool-as-a-step",
      },
      { title: "Parallel Steps", href: "/examples/workflows/parallel-steps" },
      {
        title: "Sequential Steps",
        href: "/examples/workflows/sequential-steps",
      },
      { title: "Branching Paths", href: "/examples/workflows/branching-paths" },
      {
        title: "Cyclical Dependencies",
        href: "/examples/workflows/cyclical-dependencies",
      },
      {
        title: "Suspend and Resume",
        href: "/examples/workflows/suspend-and-resume",
      },
      { title: "Calling an Agent", href: "/examples/workflows/calling-agent" },
    ],
    Memory:[
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with LibSQL",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-libsql",
      },
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with Postgres",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-pg",
      },
      {
        title: "Long-term Memory with Upstash",
        href: "/examples/memory/memory-with-upstash",
      },
      {
        title: "Streaming Working Memory (quickstart)",
        href: "/examples/memory/streaming-working-memory",
      },
      {
        title: "Streaming Working Memory (advanced)",
        href: "/examples/memory/streaming-working-memory-advanced",
      },
    ],
  RAG: [
      { title: "Chunk Text", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-text" },
      { title: "Chunk Markdown", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-markdown" },
      { title: "Chunk HTML", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-html" },
      { title: "Chunk JSON", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/chunk-json" },
      { title: "Embed Text Chunk", href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-text-chunk" },
      { title: "Embed Chunk Array", href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-chunk-array" },
      { title: "Adjust Chunk Size", href: "/examples/rag/chunking/adjust-chunk-size" },
      {
        title: "Adjust Chunk Delimiters",
        href: "/examples/rag/chunking/adjust-chunk-delimiters",
      },
      {
        title: "Metadata Extraction",
        href: "/examples/rag/embedding/metadata-extraction",
      },
      {
        title: "Hybrid Vector Search",
        href: "/examples/rag/query/hybrid-vector-search",
      },
      {
        title: "Embed Text with Cohere",
        href: "/examples/rag/embedding/embed-text-with-cohere",
      },
      {
        title: "Upsert Embeddings",
        href: "/examples/rag/upsert/upsert-embeddings",
      },
      { title: "Retrieve Results", href: "/examples/rag/query/retrieve-results" },
      { title: "Using the Vector Query Tool", href: "/examples/rag/usage/basic-rag" },
      {
        title: "Optimizing Information Density",
        href: "/examples/rag/usage/cleanup-rag",
      },
      { title: "Metadata Filtering", href: "/examples/rag/usage/filter-rag" },
      {
        title: "Re-ranking Results",
        href: "/examples/rag/rerank/rerank",
      },
      {
        title: "Re-ranking Results with Tools",
        href: "/examples/rag/rerank/rerank-rag",
      },
      { title: "Chain of Thought Prompting", href: "/examples/rag/usage/cot-rag" },
      {
        title: "Structured Reasoning with Workflows",
        href: "/examples/rag/usage/cot-workflow-rag",
      },
      { title: "Graph RAG", href: "/examples/rag/usage/graph-rag" },
    ],
  Evals: [
    {
      title: "Answer Relevancy",
      href: "/examples/evals/answer-relevancy",
    },
    {
      title: "Bias",
      href: "/examples/evals/bias",
    },
    {
      title: "Completeness",
      href: "/examples/evals/completeness",
    },
    {
      title: "Content Similarity",
      href: "/examples/evals/content-similarity",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Position",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-position",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Precision",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-precision",
    },
    {
      title: "Context Relevancy",
      href: "/examples/evals/context-relevancy",
    },
    {
      title: "Contextual Recall",
      href: "/examples/evals/contextual-recall",
    },
    {
      title: "Custom Eval with LLM as a Judge",
      href: "/examples/evals/custom-eval",
    },
    {
      title: "Faithfulness",
      href: "/examples/evals/faithfulness",
    },
    {
      title: "Hallucination",
      href: "/examples/evals/hallucination",
    },
    {
      title: "Keyword Coverage",
      href: "/examples/evals/keyword-coverage",
    },
    {
      title: "Prompt Alignment",
      href: "/examples/evals/prompt-alignment",
    },
    {
      title: "Summarization",
      href: "/examples/evals/summarization",
    },
    {
      title: "Textual Difference",
      href: "/examples/evals/textual-difference",
    },
    {
      title: "Tone Consistency", 
      href: "/examples/evals/tone-consistency",
    },
    {
      title: "Toxicity",
      href: "/examples/evals/toxicity",
    },
    {
      title: "Word Inclusion",
      href: "/examples/evals/word-inclusion",
    },
  ],
  Voice: [
    {
      title: "Text to Speech",
      href: "/examples/voice/text-to-speech",
    },
    {
      title: "Speech to Text",
      href: "/examples/voice/speech-to-text",
    }
  ],
}}>

</CardItems>
