docs/src/pages/docs/reference/core/mastra-class.mdx, before:

---
title: "Mastra Core"
description: Documentation for the Mastra Class, the core entry point for managing agents, workflows, and server endpoints.
---

# The Mastra Class

The Mastra class is the core entry point for your application. It manages agents, workflows, and server endpoints.

## Constructor Options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "agents",
      type: "Agent[]",
      description: "Array of Agent instances to register",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "[]",
    },
    {
      name: "tools",
      type: "Record<string, ToolApi>",
      description:
        "Custom tools to register. Structured as a key-value pair, with keys being the tool name and values being the tool function.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "storage",
      type: "MastraStorage",
      description: "Storage engine instance for persisting data",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "vectors",
      type: "Record<string, MastraVector>",
      description:
        "Vector store instance, used for semantic search and vector-based tools (eg Pinecone, PgVector or Qdrant)",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "logger",
      type: "Logger",
      description: "Logger instance created with createLogger()",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Console logger with INFO level",
    },
    {
      name: "workflows",
      type: "Record<string, Workflow>",
      description: "Workflows to register. Structured as a key-value pair, with keys being the workflow name and values being the workflow instance.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "serverMiddleware",
      type: "Array<{ handler: (c: any, next: () => Promise<void>) => Promise<Response | void>; path?: string; }>",
      description: "Server middleware functions to be applied to API routes. Each middleware can specify a path pattern (defaults to '/api/*').",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "[]",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Initialization

The Mastra class is typically initialized in your `src/mastra/index.ts` file:

```typescript copy filename=src/mastra/index.ts
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";
import { createLogger } from "@mastra/core/logger";

// Basic initialization
export const mastra = new Mastra({});

// Full initialization with all options
export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: {},
  workflows: [],
  integrations: [],
  logger: createLogger({
    name: "My Project",
    level: "info",
  }),
  storage: {},
  tools: {},
  vectors: {},
});
```

You can think of the `Mastra` class as a top-level registry. When you register tools with Mastra, your registered agents and workflows can use them. When you register integrations with Mastra, agents, workflows, and tools can use them.

## Methods

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "getAgent(name)",
      type: "Agent",
      description:
        "Returns an agent instance by id. Throws if agent not found.",
      example: 'const agent = mastra.getAgent("agentOne");',
    },
    {
      name: "getAgents()",
      type: "Record<string, Agent>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered agents as a key-value object.",
      example: 'const agents = mastra.getAgents();',
    },
    {
      name: "getWorkflow(id, { serialized })",
      type: "Workflow",
      description:
        "Returns a workflow instance by id. The serialized option (default: false) returns a simplified representation with just the name.",
      example: 'const workflow = mastra.getWorkflow("myWorkflow");',
    },
    {
      name: "getWorkflows({ serialized })",
      type: "Record<string, Workflow>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered workflows. The serialized option (default: false) returns simplified representations.",
      example: 'const workflows = mastra.getWorkflows();',
    },
    {
      name: "getVector(name)",
      type: "MastraVector",
      description:
        "Returns a vector store instance by name. Throws if not found.",
      example: 'const vectorStore = mastra.getVector("myVectorStore");',
    },
    {
      name: "getVectors()",
      type: "Record<string, MastraVector>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered vector stores as a key-value object.",
      example: 'const vectorStores = mastra.getVectors();',
    },
    {
      name: "getDeployer()",
      type: "MastraDeployer | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured deployer instance, if any.",
      example: 'const deployer = mastra.getDeployer();',
    },
    {
      name: "getStorage()",
      type: "MastraStorage | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured storage instance.",
      example: 'const storage = mastra.getStorage();',
    },
    {
      name: "getMemory()",
      type: "MastraMemory | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured memory instance. Note: This is deprecated, memory should be added to agents directly.",
      example: 'const memory = mastra.getMemory();',
    },
    {
      name: "getServerMiddleware()",
      type: "Array<{ handler: Function; path: string; }>",
      description:
        "Returns the configured server middleware functions.",
      example: 'const middleware = mastra.getServerMiddleware();',
    },
    {
      name: "setStorage(storage)",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the storage instance for the Mastra instance.",
      example: 'mastra.setStorage(new DefaultStorage());',
    },
    {
      name: "setLogger({ logger })",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the logger for all components (agents, workflows, etc.).",
      example: 'mastra.setLogger({ logger: createLogger({ name: "MyLogger" }) });',
    },
    {
      name: "setTelemetry(telemetry)",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the telemetry configuration for all components.",
      example: 'mastra.setTelemetry({ export: { type: "console" } });',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogger()",
      type: "Logger",
      description:
        "Gets the configured logger instance.",
      example: 'const logger = mastra.getLogger();',
    },
    {
      name: "getTelemetry()",
      type: "Telemetry | undefined",
      description:
        "Gets the configured telemetry instance.",
      example: 'const telemetry = mastra.getTelemetry();',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogsByRunId({ runId, transportId })",
      type: "Promise<any>",
      description:
        "Retrieves logs for a specific run ID and transport ID.",
      example: 'const logs = await mastra.getLogsByRunId({ runId: "123", transportId: "456" });',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogs(transportId)",
      type: "Promise<any>",
      description:
        "Retrieves all logs for a specific transport ID.",
      example: 'const logs = await mastra.getLogs("transportId");',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Error Handling

The Mastra class methods throw typed errors that can be caught:

```typescript copy
try {
  const tool = mastra.getTool("nonexistentTool");
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof Error) {
    console.log(error.message); // "Tool with name nonexistentTool not found"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat: Update `mastra-class.mdx`
Adjust `mastra` constructor options.

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/core/mastra-class.mdx, after:

---
title: "Mastra Core"
description: Documentation for the Mastra Class, the core entry point for managing agents, workflows, and server endpoints.
---

# The Mastra Class

The Mastra class is the core entry point for your application. It manages agents, workflows, and server endpoints.

## Constructor Options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "agents",
      type: "Record<string, Agent>",
      description: "Record of Agent instances to register",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "networks",
      type: "Record<string, AgentNetwork>",
      description: "Record of AgentNetwork instances to register"
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "storage",
      type: "MastraStorage",
      description: "Storage engine instance for persisting data",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "vectors",
      type: "Record<string, MastraVector>",
      description:
        "Vector store instance, used for semantic search and vector-based tools (eg Pinecone, PgVector or Qdrant)",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "logger",
      type: "Logger",
      description: "Logger instance created with createLogger()",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Console logger with INFO level",
    },
    {
      name: "workflows",
      type: "Record<string, Workflow>",
      description: "Workflows to register. Structured as a key-value pair, with keys being the workflow name and values being the workflow instance.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "tts",
      type: "Record<string, MastraTTS>",
      description: "MastraTTS to register. Structured as a key-value pair, with keys being the tts name and values being the tts instance.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
    },
    {
      name: "serverMiddleware",
      type: "Array<{ handler: (c: any, next: () => Promise<void>) => Promise<Response | void>; path?: string; }>",
      description: "Server middleware functions to be applied to API routes. Each middleware can specify a path pattern (defaults to '/api/*').",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "[]",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Initialization

The Mastra class is typically initialized in your `src/mastra/index.ts` file:

```typescript copy filename=src/mastra/index.ts
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";
import { createLogger } from "@mastra/core/logger";

// Basic initialization
export const mastra = new Mastra({});

// Full initialization with all options
export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: {},
  networks: {},
  storage: {},
  vectors: {},
  workflows: {},
  tts: {},
  logger: createLogger({
    name: "My Project",
    level: "info",
  }),
});
```

You can think of the `Mastra` class as a top-level registry. When you register tools with Mastra, your registered agents and workflows can use them. When you register integrations with Mastra, agents, workflows, and tools can use them.

## Methods

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "getAgent(name)",
      type: "Agent",
      description:
        "Returns an agent instance by id. Throws if agent not found.",
      example: 'const agent = mastra.getAgent("agentOne");',
    },
    {
      name: "getAgents()",
      type: "Record<string, Agent>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered agents as a key-value object.",
      example: 'const agents = mastra.getAgents();',
    },
    {
      name: "getWorkflow(id, { serialized })",
      type: "Workflow",
      description:
        "Returns a workflow instance by id. The serialized option (default: false) returns a simplified representation with just the name.",
      example: 'const workflow = mastra.getWorkflow("myWorkflow");',
    },
    {
      name: "getWorkflows({ serialized })",
      type: "Record<string, Workflow>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered workflows. The serialized option (default: false) returns simplified representations.",
      example: 'const workflows = mastra.getWorkflows();',
    },
    {
      name: "getVector(name)",
      type: "MastraVector",
      description:
        "Returns a vector store instance by name. Throws if not found.",
      example: 'const vectorStore = mastra.getVector("myVectorStore");',
    },
    {
      name: "getVectors()",
      type: "Record<string, MastraVector>",
      description:
        "Returns all registered vector stores as a key-value object.",
      example: 'const vectorStores = mastra.getVectors();',
    },
    {
      name: "getDeployer()",
      type: "MastraDeployer | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured deployer instance, if any.",
      example: 'const deployer = mastra.getDeployer();',
    },
    {
      name: "getStorage()",
      type: "MastraStorage | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured storage instance.",
      example: 'const storage = mastra.getStorage();',
    },
    {
      name: "getMemory()",
      type: "MastraMemory | undefined",
      description:
        "Returns the configured memory instance. Note: This is deprecated, memory should be added to agents directly.",
      example: 'const memory = mastra.getMemory();',
    },
    {
      name: "getServerMiddleware()",
      type: "Array<{ handler: Function; path: string; }>",
      description:
        "Returns the configured server middleware functions.",
      example: 'const middleware = mastra.getServerMiddleware();',
    },
    {
      name: "setStorage(storage)",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the storage instance for the Mastra instance.",
      example: 'mastra.setStorage(new DefaultStorage());',
    },
    {
      name: "setLogger({ logger })",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the logger for all components (agents, workflows, etc.).",
      example: 'mastra.setLogger({ logger: createLogger({ name: "MyLogger" }) });',
    },
    {
      name: "setTelemetry(telemetry)",
      type: "void",
      description:
        "Sets the telemetry configuration for all components.",
      example: 'mastra.setTelemetry({ export: { type: "console" } });',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogger()",
      type: "Logger",
      description:
        "Gets the configured logger instance.",
      example: 'const logger = mastra.getLogger();',
    },
    {
      name: "getTelemetry()",
      type: "Telemetry | undefined",
      description:
        "Gets the configured telemetry instance.",
      example: 'const telemetry = mastra.getTelemetry();',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogsByRunId({ runId, transportId })",
      type: "Promise<any>",
      description:
        "Retrieves logs for a specific run ID and transport ID.",
      example: 'const logs = await mastra.getLogsByRunId({ runId: "123", transportId: "456" });',
    },
    {
      name: "getLogs(transportId)",
      type: "Promise<any>",
      description:
        "Retrieves all logs for a specific transport ID.",
      example: 'const logs = await mastra.getLogs("transportId");',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Error Handling

The Mastra class methods throw typed errors that can be caught:

```typescript copy
try {
  const tool = mastra.getTool("nonexistentTool");
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof Error) {
    console.log(error.message); // "Tool with name nonexistentTool not found"
  }
}
```
