docs/src/pages/docs/reference/client-js/index.mdx, before:

# Mastra Client SDK

The Mastra Client SDK provides a simple and type-safe interface to interact with Mastra REST APIs from TypeScript and JavaScript applications. It offers comprehensive support for all Mastra features including agents, vectors, memory, tools, and workflows.

## Installation

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

<Tabs items={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>

```bash copy
npm install @mastra/client-js
```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn add @mastra/client-js
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm add @mastra/client-js 
```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Requirements

- Node.js 16.x or later
- TypeScript 4.7+ (for TypeScript users)
- Modern browser environment with Fetch API support (for browser usage)

### Local Development

When developing locally, the Client SDK makes it easy to interact with your Mastra server. Simply point the client to your local server:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111", // Default Mastra server port
});
```

For more information about local development, see the [Local Development Guide](/docs/guides/local-development).

## Basic Configuration

The minimal configuration requires only the `baseUrl` of your Mastra API endpoint:

```typescript
import { MastraClient } from "@mastra/client-js";

const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
});
```

## Full Configuration Options

Here's a complete example showing all available configuration options:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  // Required
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",

  // Optional
  retries: 3, // Number of retry attempts (default: 3)
  backoffMs: 300, // Initial backoff time in ms (default: 300)
  maxBackoffMs: 5000, // Maximum backoff time in ms (default: 5000)
  headers: {
    // Custom headers to include in all requests
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
    "Custom-Header": "value",
  },
});
```

### Configuration Options

| Option         | Type                     | Default | Description                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `baseUrl`      | `string`                 | -       | The base URL of your Mastra API endpoint (required) |
| `retries`      | `number`                 | `3`     | Number of times to retry failed requests            |
| `backoffMs`    | `number`                 | `300`   | Initial backoff time in milliseconds                |
| `maxBackoffMs` | `number`                 | `5000`  | Maximum backoff time in milliseconds                |
| `headers`      | `Record<string, string>` | `{}`    | Custom headers to include in all requests           |

## Authentication

To authenticate your requests, include an authorization header in your configuration:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
  },
});
```

### Environment-Based Configuration

For different environments (development, staging, production), you might want to configure the client differently:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: process.env.MASTRA_API_URL || "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.MASTRA_API_KEY}`,
  },
  retries: process.env.NODE_ENV === "production" ? 5 : 3,
});
```

## Available Resources

The client provides access to the following resources:

- **Agents**: Create and manage AI agents, generate responses, and handle streaming interactions
- **Memory**: Manage conversation threads and message history
- **Tools**: Access and execute tools available to agents
- **Workflows**: Create and manage automated workflows
- **Vectors**: Handle vector operations for semantic search and similarity matching
- **Logs**: Access system logs and debugging information

Each resource is documented in detail in its respective section.

## Quick Example

Here's a simple example of using the client with an agent:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
  },
});

// Get an agent instance
const agent = client.getAgent("your-agent-id");

// Generate a response
const response = await agent.generate({
  messages: [
    {
      role: "user",
      content: "Hello!",
    },
  ],
});
```

Commit message:

script to generate llms-full.txt and llms.txt files

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/client-js/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Mastra Client SDK"
description: "A simple and type-safe interface to interact with Mastra REST APIs from TypeScript and JavaScript applications."
---

# Mastra Client SDK

The Mastra Client SDK provides a simple and type-safe interface to interact with Mastra REST APIs from TypeScript and JavaScript applications. It offers comprehensive support for all Mastra features including agents, vectors, memory, tools, and workflows.

## Installation

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

<Tabs items={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>

```bash copy
npm install @mastra/client-js
```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn add @mastra/client-js
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm add @mastra/client-js 
```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Requirements

- Node.js 16.x or later
- TypeScript 4.7+ (for TypeScript users)
- Modern browser environment with Fetch API support (for browser usage)

### Local Development

When developing locally, the Client SDK makes it easy to interact with your Mastra server. Simply point the client to your local server:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111", // Default Mastra server port
});
```

For more information about local development, see the [Local Development Guide](/docs/guides/local-development).

## Basic Configuration

The minimal configuration requires only the `baseUrl` of your Mastra API endpoint:

```typescript
import { MastraClient } from "@mastra/client-js";

const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
});
```

## Full Configuration Options

Here's a complete example showing all available configuration options:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  // Required
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",

  // Optional
  retries: 3, // Number of retry attempts (default: 3)
  backoffMs: 300, // Initial backoff time in ms (default: 300)
  maxBackoffMs: 5000, // Maximum backoff time in ms (default: 5000)
  headers: {
    // Custom headers to include in all requests
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
    "Custom-Header": "value",
  },
});
```

### Configuration Options

| Option         | Type                     | Default | Description                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `baseUrl`      | `string`                 | -       | The base URL of your Mastra API endpoint (required) |
| `retries`      | `number`                 | `3`     | Number of times to retry failed requests            |
| `backoffMs`    | `number`                 | `300`   | Initial backoff time in milliseconds                |
| `maxBackoffMs` | `number`                 | `5000`  | Maximum backoff time in milliseconds                |
| `headers`      | `Record<string, string>` | `{}`    | Custom headers to include in all requests           |

## Authentication

To authenticate your requests, include an authorization header in your configuration:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
  },
});
```

### Environment-Based Configuration

For different environments (development, staging, production), you might want to configure the client differently:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: process.env.MASTRA_API_URL || "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.MASTRA_API_KEY}`,
  },
  retries: process.env.NODE_ENV === "production" ? 5 : 3,
});
```

## Available Resources

The client provides access to the following resources:

- **Agents**: Create and manage AI agents, generate responses, and handle streaming interactions
- **Memory**: Manage conversation threads and message history
- **Tools**: Access and execute tools available to agents
- **Workflows**: Create and manage automated workflows
- **Vectors**: Handle vector operations for semantic search and similarity matching
- **Logs**: Access system logs and debugging information

Each resource is documented in detail in its respective section.

## Quick Example

Here's a simple example of using the client with an agent:

```typescript
const client = new MastraClient({
  baseUrl: "http://localhost:4111",
  headers: {
    Authorization: "Bearer your-api-key",
  },
});

// Get an agent instance
const agent = client.getAgent("your-agent-id");

// Generate a response
const response = await agent.generate({
  messages: [
    {
      role: "user",
      content: "Hello!",
    },
  ],
});
```
