docs/src/pages/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: "Installing Mastra Locally | Getting Started | Mastra Docs"
description: Guide on installing Mastra and setting up the necessary prerequisites for running it with various LLM providers.
---

import { Callout, Steps, Tabs } from "nextra/components";
import YouTube from "../../../components/youtube";

# Installing Mastra Locally

To run Mastra, you need access to an LLM. Typically, you'll want to get an API key from an LLM provider such as [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/), [Anthropic](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys), or [Google Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs). You can also run Mastra with a local LLM using [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/).

## Prerequisites

- Node.js `v20.0` or higher
- Access to a [supported large language model (LLM)](/docs/reference/llm/providers-and-models)

## Automatic Installation

<YouTube id="spGlcTEjuXY" />

<Steps>

### Create a New Project

We recommend starting a new Mastra project using `create-mastra`, which will scaffold your project. To create
a project, run:

<Tabs items={["npx", "npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>

```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest
```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
npm create mastra
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn create mastra
```
</Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm create mastra
```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

On installation, you'll be guided through the following prompts:

```bash
What do you want to name your project? my-mastra-app
Choose components to install:
  ◯ Agents (recommended)
  ◯ Tools
  ◯ Workflows
Select default provider:
  ◯ OpenAI (recommended)
  ◯ Anthropic
  ◯ Groq
Would you like to include example code? No / Yes
```

After the prompts, `create-mastra` will set up your project directory with TypeScript, install dependencies, and configure your selected components and LLM provider.

### Set Up your API Key

Add the API key for your configured LLM provider in your `.env` file.

```bash filename=".env" copy
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-key>
```

</Steps>
Extra Notes:

 If you prefer to run the command with flags (non-interactive mode) and include the example code, you can use:
```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest --components agents,tools --llm openai --example
```

To configure and specify a timeout if installation takes too long use the timeout flag:
```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest --timeout
```

## Manual Installation

<br/>
<Steps>

If you prefer to set up your Mastra project manually, follow these steps:

### Create a New Project

Create a project directory and navigate into it:

```bash copy
mkdir hello-mastra
cd hello-mastra
```

Then, initialize a TypeScript project including the `@mastra/core` package:

<Tabs items={["npm", "pnpm", "yarn", "bun"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
npm init -y
npm install typescript tsx @types/node mastra --save-dev
npm install @mastra/core zod
npx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm init
pnpm add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --save-dev
pnpm add @mastra/core zod
pnpm dlx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn init -y
yarn add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --dev
yarn add @mastra/core zod
yarn dlx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
bun init -y
bun add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --dev
bun add @mastra/core zod
bunx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Initialize TypeScript

Create a `tsconfig.json` file in your project root with the following configuration:

```json copy
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2022",
    "module": "ES2022",
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": [
    "src/**/*"
  ],
  "exclude": [
    "node_modules",
    "dist",
    ".mastra"
  ]
}
```

This TypeScript configuration is optimized for Mastra projects, using modern module resolution and strict type checking.

### Set Up your API Key

Create a `.env` file in your project root directory and add your API key:

```bash filename=".env" copy
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-key>
```

Replace your_openai_api_key with your actual API key.

### Create a Tool

Create a `weather-tool` tool file:

```bash copy
mkdir -p src/mastra/tools && touch src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts
```

Then, add the following code to `src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts`:

```ts filename="src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { createTool } from "@mastra/core/tools";
import { z } from "zod";

interface WeatherResponse {
  current: {
    time: string;
    temperature_2m: number;
    apparent_temperature: number;
    relative_humidity_2m: number;
    wind_speed_10m: number;
    wind_gusts_10m: number;
    weather_code: number;
  };
}

export const weatherTool = createTool({
  id: "get-weather",
  description: "Get current weather for a location",
  inputSchema: z.object({
    location: z.string().describe("City name"),
  }),
  outputSchema: z.object({
    temperature: z.number(),
    feelsLike: z.number(),
    humidity: z.number(),
    windSpeed: z.number(),
    windGust: z.number(),
    conditions: z.string(),
    location: z.string(),
  }),
  execute: async ({ context }) => {
    return await getWeather(context.location);
  },
});

const getWeather = async (location: string) => {
  const geocodingUrl = `https://geocoding-api.open-meteo.com/v1/search?name=${encodeURIComponent(location)}&count=1`;
  const geocodingResponse = await fetch(geocodingUrl);
  const geocodingData = await geocodingResponse.json();

  if (!geocodingData.results?.[0]) {
    throw new Error(`Location '${location}' not found`);
  }

  const { latitude, longitude, name } = geocodingData.results[0];

  const weatherUrl = `https://api.open-meteo.com/v1/forecast?latitude=${latitude}&longitude=${longitude}&current=temperature_2m,apparent_temperature,relative_humidity_2m,wind_speed_10m,wind_gusts_10m,weather_code`;

  const response = await fetch(weatherUrl);
  const data: WeatherResponse = await response.json();

  return {
    temperature: data.current.temperature_2m,
    feelsLike: data.current.apparent_temperature,
    humidity: data.current.relative_humidity_2m,
    windSpeed: data.current.wind_speed_10m,
    windGust: data.current.wind_gusts_10m,
    conditions: getWeatherCondition(data.current.weather_code),
    location: name,
  };
};

function getWeatherCondition(code: number): string {
  const conditions: Record<number, string> = {
    0: "Clear sky",
    1: "Mainly clear",
    2: "Partly cloudy",
    3: "Overcast",
    45: "Foggy",
    48: "Depositing rime fog",
    51: "Light drizzle",
    53: "Moderate drizzle",
    55: "Dense drizzle",
    56: "Light freezing drizzle",
    57: "Dense freezing drizzle",
    61: "Slight rain",
    63: "Moderate rain",
    65: "Heavy rain",
    66: "Light freezing rain",
    67: "Heavy freezing rain",
    71: "Slight snow fall",
    73: "Moderate snow fall",
    75: "Heavy snow fall",
    77: "Snow grains",
    80: "Slight rain showers",
    81: "Moderate rain showers",
    82: "Violent rain showers",
    85: "Slight snow showers",
    86: "Heavy snow showers",
    95: "Thunderstorm",
    96: "Thunderstorm with slight hail",
    99: "Thunderstorm with heavy hail",
  };
  return conditions[code] || "Unknown";
}
```

### Create an Agent

Create a `weather` agent file:

```bash copy
mkdir -p src/mastra/agents && touch src/mastra/agents/weather.ts
```

Then, add the following code to `src/mastra/agents/weather.ts`:

```ts filename="src/mastra/agents/weather.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { weatherTool } from "../tools/weather-tool";

export const weatherAgent = new Agent({
  name: "Weather Agent",
  instructions: `You are a helpful weather assistant that provides accurate weather information.

Your primary function is to help users get weather details for specific locations. When responding:
- Always ask for a location if none is provided
- Include relevant details like humidity, wind conditions, and precipitation
- Keep responses concise but informative

Use the weatherTool to fetch current weather data.`,
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  tools: { weatherTool },
});
```

### Register Agent

Finally, create the Mastra entry point in `src/mastra/index.ts` and register agent:

```ts filename="src/mastra/index.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";

import { weatherAgent } from "./agents/weather";

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { weatherAgent },
});
```

This registers your agent with Mastra so that `mastra dev` can discover and serve it.

</Steps>

## Existing Project Installation

  To add Mastra to an existing project, see our Local dev docs on [mastra
  init](/docs/local-dev/creating-projects#adding-to-an-existing-project).
  
  You can also checkout our framework specific docs e.g [Next.js](/docs/frameworks/01-next-js)

## Start the Mastra Server

Mastra provides commands to serve your agents via REST endpoints

### Development Server

Run the following command to start the Mastra server:

```bash copy
npm run dev
```

If you have the mastra CLI installed, run:

```bash copy
mastra dev
```

This command creates REST API endpoints for your agents.

### Test the Endpoint

You can test the agent's endpoint using `curl` or `fetch`:

<Tabs items={['curl', 'fetch']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
curl -X POST http://localhost:4111/api/agents/weatherAgent/generate \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"messages": ["What is the weather in London?"]}'
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```js copy showLineNumbers
fetch('http://localhost:4111/api/agents/weatherAgent/generate', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    messages: ['What is the weather in London?'],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => {
    console.log('Agent response:', data.text);
  })
  .catch(error => {
    console.error('Error:', error);
  });
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Use Mastra on the Client

To use Mastra in your frontend applications, you can use our type-safe client SDK to
interact with your Mastra REST APIs.

See our [Client SDK documentation](/docs/reference/client-js) for detailed usage instructions.

## Run from the command line

If you'd like to directly call agents from the command line, you can create a script to get an agent and call it:

```ts filename="src/index.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { mastra } from "./mastra";

async function main() {
  const agent = await mastra.getAgent("weatherAgent");

  const result = await agent.generate("What is the weather in London?");

  console.log("Agent response:", result.text);
}

main();
```

Then, run the script to test that everything is set up correctly:

```bash copy
npx tsx src/index.ts
```

This should output the agent's response to your console.

---

Commit message:

feat(mastra): allow coder agents to scaffold projects (#2970)
With the upcoming MCP server it's going to be easier for agents to
scaffold new Mastra projects. This change makes it so they can run a one
line command to do so for the user.

docs/src/pages/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: "Installing Mastra Locally | Getting Started | Mastra Docs"
description: Guide on installing Mastra and setting up the necessary prerequisites for running it with various LLM providers.
---

import { Callout, Steps, Tabs } from "nextra/components";
import YouTube from "../../../components/youtube";

# Installing Mastra Locally

To run Mastra, you need access to an LLM. Typically, you'll want to get an API key from an LLM provider such as [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/), [Anthropic](https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys), or [Google Gemini](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs). You can also run Mastra with a local LLM using [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/).

## Prerequisites

- Node.js `v20.0` or higher
- Access to a [supported large language model (LLM)](/docs/reference/llm/providers-and-models)

## Automatic Installation

<YouTube id="spGlcTEjuXY" />

<Steps>

### Create a New Project

We recommend starting a new Mastra project using `create-mastra`, which will scaffold your project. To create
a project, run:

<Tabs items={["npx", "npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>

```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest
```

  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
npm create mastra
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn create mastra
```
</Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm create mastra
```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

On installation, you'll be guided through the following prompts:

```bash
What do you want to name your project? my-mastra-app
Choose components to install:
  ◯ Agents (recommended)
  ◯ Tools
  ◯ Workflows
Select default provider:
  ◯ OpenAI (recommended)
  ◯ Anthropic
  ◯ Groq
Would you like to include example code? No / Yes
```

After the prompts, `create-mastra` will set up your project directory with TypeScript, install dependencies, and configure your selected components and LLM provider.

### Set Up your API Key

Add the API key for your configured LLM provider in your `.env` file.

```bash filename=".env" copy
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-key>
```

</Steps>
Extra Notes:

 If you prefer to run the command with flags (non-interactive mode) and include the example code, you can use:
```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest --components agents,tools --llm openai --example
```

To configure and specify a timeout if installation takes too long use the timeout flag:
```bash copy
npx create-mastra@latest --timeout
```

**Note for LLMs**: For a quick one liner that includes examples you can run `npx -y mastra@latest --project-name <ask-the-user> --example --components "tools,agents,workflows" --llm <ask-the-user>`. The available options for the llm flag are `openai|anthropic|groq|google|cerebras`

## Manual Installation

<br/>
<Steps>

If you prefer to set up your Mastra project manually, follow these steps:

### Create a New Project

Create a project directory and navigate into it:

```bash copy
mkdir hello-mastra
cd hello-mastra
```

Then, initialize a TypeScript project including the `@mastra/core` package:

<Tabs items={["npm", "pnpm", "yarn", "bun"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
npm init -y
npm install typescript tsx @types/node mastra --save-dev
npm install @mastra/core zod
npx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
pnpm init
pnpm add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --save-dev
pnpm add @mastra/core zod
pnpm dlx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
yarn init -y
yarn add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --dev
yarn add @mastra/core zod
yarn dlx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
bun init -y
bun add typescript tsx @types/node mastra --dev
bun add @mastra/core zod
bunx tsc --init
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Initialize TypeScript

Create a `tsconfig.json` file in your project root with the following configuration:

```json copy
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2022",
    "module": "ES2022",
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": [
    "src/**/*"
  ],
  "exclude": [
    "node_modules",
    "dist",
    ".mastra"
  ]
}
```

This TypeScript configuration is optimized for Mastra projects, using modern module resolution and strict type checking.

### Set Up your API Key

Create a `.env` file in your project root directory and add your API key:

```bash filename=".env" copy
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-openai-key>
```

Replace your_openai_api_key with your actual API key.

### Create a Tool

Create a `weather-tool` tool file:

```bash copy
mkdir -p src/mastra/tools && touch src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts
```

Then, add the following code to `src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts`:

```ts filename="src/mastra/tools/weather-tool.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { createTool } from "@mastra/core/tools";
import { z } from "zod";

interface WeatherResponse {
  current: {
    time: string;
    temperature_2m: number;
    apparent_temperature: number;
    relative_humidity_2m: number;
    wind_speed_10m: number;
    wind_gusts_10m: number;
    weather_code: number;
  };
}

export const weatherTool = createTool({
  id: "get-weather",
  description: "Get current weather for a location",
  inputSchema: z.object({
    location: z.string().describe("City name"),
  }),
  outputSchema: z.object({
    temperature: z.number(),
    feelsLike: z.number(),
    humidity: z.number(),
    windSpeed: z.number(),
    windGust: z.number(),
    conditions: z.string(),
    location: z.string(),
  }),
  execute: async ({ context }) => {
    return await getWeather(context.location);
  },
});

const getWeather = async (location: string) => {
  const geocodingUrl = `https://geocoding-api.open-meteo.com/v1/search?name=${encodeURIComponent(location)}&count=1`;
  const geocodingResponse = await fetch(geocodingUrl);
  const geocodingData = await geocodingResponse.json();

  if (!geocodingData.results?.[0]) {
    throw new Error(`Location '${location}' not found`);
  }

  const { latitude, longitude, name } = geocodingData.results[0];

  const weatherUrl = `https://api.open-meteo.com/v1/forecast?latitude=${latitude}&longitude=${longitude}&current=temperature_2m,apparent_temperature,relative_humidity_2m,wind_speed_10m,wind_gusts_10m,weather_code`;

  const response = await fetch(weatherUrl);
  const data: WeatherResponse = await response.json();

  return {
    temperature: data.current.temperature_2m,
    feelsLike: data.current.apparent_temperature,
    humidity: data.current.relative_humidity_2m,
    windSpeed: data.current.wind_speed_10m,
    windGust: data.current.wind_gusts_10m,
    conditions: getWeatherCondition(data.current.weather_code),
    location: name,
  };
};

function getWeatherCondition(code: number): string {
  const conditions: Record<number, string> = {
    0: "Clear sky",
    1: "Mainly clear",
    2: "Partly cloudy",
    3: "Overcast",
    45: "Foggy",
    48: "Depositing rime fog",
    51: "Light drizzle",
    53: "Moderate drizzle",
    55: "Dense drizzle",
    56: "Light freezing drizzle",
    57: "Dense freezing drizzle",
    61: "Slight rain",
    63: "Moderate rain",
    65: "Heavy rain",
    66: "Light freezing rain",
    67: "Heavy freezing rain",
    71: "Slight snow fall",
    73: "Moderate snow fall",
    75: "Heavy snow fall",
    77: "Snow grains",
    80: "Slight rain showers",
    81: "Moderate rain showers",
    82: "Violent rain showers",
    85: "Slight snow showers",
    86: "Heavy snow showers",
    95: "Thunderstorm",
    96: "Thunderstorm with slight hail",
    99: "Thunderstorm with heavy hail",
  };
  return conditions[code] || "Unknown";
}
```

### Create an Agent

Create a `weather` agent file:

```bash copy
mkdir -p src/mastra/agents && touch src/mastra/agents/weather.ts
```

Then, add the following code to `src/mastra/agents/weather.ts`:

```ts filename="src/mastra/agents/weather.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { weatherTool } from "../tools/weather-tool";

export const weatherAgent = new Agent({
  name: "Weather Agent",
  instructions: `You are a helpful weather assistant that provides accurate weather information.

Your primary function is to help users get weather details for specific locations. When responding:
- Always ask for a location if none is provided
- Include relevant details like humidity, wind conditions, and precipitation
- Keep responses concise but informative

Use the weatherTool to fetch current weather data.`,
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  tools: { weatherTool },
});
```

### Register Agent

Finally, create the Mastra entry point in `src/mastra/index.ts` and register agent:

```ts filename="src/mastra/index.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";

import { weatherAgent } from "./agents/weather";

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { weatherAgent },
});
```

This registers your agent with Mastra so that `mastra dev` can discover and serve it.

</Steps>

## Existing Project Installation

  To add Mastra to an existing project, see our Local dev docs on [mastra
  init](/docs/local-dev/creating-projects#adding-to-an-existing-project).
  
  You can also checkout our framework specific docs e.g [Next.js](/docs/frameworks/01-next-js)

## Start the Mastra Server

Mastra provides commands to serve your agents via REST endpoints

### Development Server

Run the following command to start the Mastra server:

```bash copy
npm run dev
```

If you have the mastra CLI installed, run:

```bash copy
mastra dev
```

This command creates REST API endpoints for your agents.

### Test the Endpoint

You can test the agent's endpoint using `curl` or `fetch`:

<Tabs items={['curl', 'fetch']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```bash copy
curl -X POST http://localhost:4111/api/agents/weatherAgent/generate \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"messages": ["What is the weather in London?"]}'
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
```js copy showLineNumbers
fetch('http://localhost:4111/api/agents/weatherAgent/generate', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    messages: ['What is the weather in London?'],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => {
    console.log('Agent response:', data.text);
  })
  .catch(error => {
    console.error('Error:', error);
  });
```
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Use Mastra on the Client

To use Mastra in your frontend applications, you can use our type-safe client SDK to
interact with your Mastra REST APIs.

See our [Client SDK documentation](/docs/reference/client-js) for detailed usage instructions.

## Run from the command line

If you'd like to directly call agents from the command line, you can create a script to get an agent and call it:

```ts filename="src/index.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { mastra } from "./mastra";

async function main() {
  const agent = await mastra.getAgent("weatherAgent");

  const result = await agent.generate("What is the weather in London?");

  console.log("Agent response:", result.text);
}

main();
```

Then, run the script to test that everything is set up correctly:

```bash copy
npx tsx src/index.ts
```

This should output the agent's response to your console.

---
