docs/src/pages/docs/reference/agents/stream.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: Agent.stream() | Streaming | Agents | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the `.stream()` method in Mastra agents, which enables real-time streaming of responses.
---

# `stream()`

The `stream()` method enables real-time streaming of responses from an agent. This method accepts `messages` and an optional `options` object as parameters, similar to `generate()`.

## Parameters

### `messages`

The `messages` parameter can be:

- A single string
- An array of strings
- An array of message objects with `role` and `content` properties

#### Message Object Structure

```typescript
interface Message {
  role: 'system' | 'user' | 'assistant';
  content: string;
}
```

### `options` (Optional)

An optional object that can include:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: 'output',
      type: 'string | JSONSchema7 | ZodSchema',
      isOptional: true,
      default: "'text'",
      description: 'Defines the output format. Can be "text" or a schema for structured output.',
    },
    {
      name: 'context',
      type: 'CoreMessage[]',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Additional context messages to provide to the agent.',
    },
    {
      name: 'threadId',
      type: 'string',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Identifier for the conversation thread. Allows for maintaining context across multiple interactions.',
    },
    {
      name: 'resourceId',
      type: 'string',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Identifier for the user or resource interacting with the agent.',
    },
    {
      name: 'onFinish',
      type: '(result: string) => Promise<void> | void',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Callback function called when streaming is complete.',
    },
    {
      name: 'onStepFinish',
      type: '(step: string) => void',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Callback function called after each step during streaming.',
    },
    {
      name: 'maxSteps',
      type: 'number',
      isOptional: true,
      default: '5',
      description: 'Maximum number of steps allowed during streaming.',
    },
    {
      name: 'toolsets',
      type: 'ToolsetsInput',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Additional toolsets to make available to the agent during this stream.',
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

The method returns a promise that resolves to an object containing one or more of the following properties:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: 'textStream',
      type: 'AsyncIterable<string>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'An async iterable stream of text chunks. Present when output is "text".',
    },
    {
      name: 'objectStream',
      type: 'AsyncIterable<object>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'An async iterable stream of structured data. Present when a schema is provided.',
    },
    {
      name: 'object',
      type: 'Promise<object>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'A promise that resolves to the final structured output when using a schema.',
    }
  ]}
/>

## Examples

### Basic Text Streaming

```typescript
const stream = await myAgent.stream([
  { role: "user", content: "Tell me a story." }
]);

for await (const chunk of stream.textStream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk);
}
```

### Structured Output Streaming with Thread Context

```typescript
const schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    summary: { type: 'string' },
    nextSteps: { type: 'array', items: { type: 'string' } }
  },
  required: ['summary', 'nextSteps']
};

const response = await myAgent.stream(
  "What should we do next?",
  {
    output: schema,
    threadId: "project-123",
    onFinish: text => console.log("Finished:", text)
  }
);

for await (const chunk of response.textStream) {
  console.log(chunk);
}

const result = await response.object;
console.log("Final structured result:", result);
```

The key difference between Agent's `stream()` and LLM's `stream()` is that Agents maintain conversation context through `threadId`, can access tools, and integrate with the agent's memory system.

Commit message:

docs: add temperature to reference (#1959)
Co-authored-by: Your Name <you@example.com>

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/agents/stream.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Agent.stream() | Streaming | Agents | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the `.stream()` method in Mastra agents, which enables real-time streaming of responses.
---

# `stream()`

The `stream()` method enables real-time streaming of responses from an agent. This method accepts `messages` and an optional `options` object as parameters, similar to `generate()`.

## Parameters

### `messages`

The `messages` parameter can be:

- A single string
- An array of strings
- An array of message objects with `role` and `content` properties

#### Message Object Structure

```typescript
interface Message {
  role: 'system' | 'user' | 'assistant';
  content: string;
}
```

### `options` (Optional)

An optional object that can include:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: 'output',
      type: 'string | JSONSchema7 | ZodSchema',
      isOptional: true,
      default: "'text'",
      description: 'Defines the output format. Can be "text" or a schema for structured output.',
    },
    {
      name: 'context',
      type: 'CoreMessage[]',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Additional context messages to provide to the agent.',
    },
    {
      name: 'threadId',
      type: 'string',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Identifier for the conversation thread. Allows for maintaining context across multiple interactions.',
    },
    {
      name: 'resourceId',
      type: 'string',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Identifier for the user or resource interacting with the agent.',
    },
    {
      name: 'onFinish',
      type: '(result: string) => Promise<void> | void',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Callback function called when streaming is complete.',
    },
    {
      name: 'onStepFinish',
      type: '(step: string) => void',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Callback function called after each step during streaming.',
    },
    {
      name: 'maxSteps',
      type: 'number',
      isOptional: true,
      default: '5',
      description: 'Maximum number of steps allowed during streaming.',
    },
    {
      name: 'toolsets',
      type: 'ToolsetsInput',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Additional toolsets to make available to the agent during this stream.',
    },
    {
      name: 'temperature',
      type: 'number',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'Controls randomness in the model\'s output. Higher values (e.g., 0.8) make the output more random, lower values (e.g., 0.2) make it more focused and deterministic.',
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

The method returns a promise that resolves to an object containing one or more of the following properties:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: 'textStream',
      type: 'AsyncIterable<string>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'An async iterable stream of text chunks. Present when output is "text".',
    },
    {
      name: 'objectStream',
      type: 'AsyncIterable<object>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'An async iterable stream of structured data. Present when a schema is provided.',
    },
    {
      name: 'object',
      type: 'Promise<object>',
      isOptional: true,
      description: 'A promise that resolves to the final structured output when using a schema.',
    }
  ]}
/>

## Examples

### Basic Text Streaming

```typescript
const stream = await myAgent.stream([
  { role: "user", content: "Tell me a story." }
]);

for await (const chunk of stream.textStream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk);
}
```

### Structured Output Streaming with Thread Context

```typescript
const schema = {
  type: 'object',
  properties: {
    summary: { type: 'string' },
    nextSteps: { type: 'array', items: { type: 'string' } }
  },
  required: ['summary', 'nextSteps']
};

const response = await myAgent.stream(
  "What should we do next?",
  {
    output: schema,
    threadId: "project-123",
    onFinish: text => console.log("Finished:", text)
  }
);

for await (const chunk of response.textStream) {
  console.log(chunk);
}

const result = await response.object;
console.log("Final structured result:", result);
```

The key difference between Agent's `stream()` and LLM's `stream()` is that Agents maintain conversation context through `threadId`, can access tools, and integrate with the agent's memory system.
