docs/src/pages/docs/reference/evals/hallucination.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: Hallucination | Metrics | Evals | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the Hallucination Metric in Mastra, which evaluates the factual correctness of LLM outputs by identifying contradictions with provided context.
---

# HallucinationMetric

The `HallucinationMetric` evaluates whether an LLM generates factually correct information by comparing its output against the provided context. This metric measures hallucination by identifying direct contradictions between the context and the output.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { HallucinationMetric } from "@mastra/evals/llm";

// Configure the model for evaluation
const model = openai("gpt-4o-mini");

const metric = new HallucinationMetric(model, {
  context: [
    "Tesla was founded in 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning in San Carlos, California.",
  ],
});

const result = await metric.measure(
  "Tell me about Tesla's founding.",
  "Tesla was founded in 2004 by Elon Musk in California.",
);

console.log(result.score); // Score from 0-1
console.log(result.info.reason); // Explanation of the score

// Example output:
// {
//   score: 0.67,
//   info: {
//     reason: "The score is 0.67 because two out of three statements from the context
//           (founding year and founders) were contradicted by the output, while the
//           location statement was not contradicted."
//   }
// }
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "LanguageModel",
      description: "Configuration for the model used to evaluate hallucination",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "HallucinationMetricOptions",
      description: "Configuration options for the metric",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

### HallucinationMetricOptions

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "scale",
      type: "number",
      description: "Maximum score value",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1",
    },
    {
      name: "context",
      type: "string[]",
      description: "Array of context pieces used as the source of truth",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

## measure() Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string",
      description: "The original query or prompt",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "output",
      type: "string",
      description: "The LLM's response to evaluate",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "score",
      type: "number",
      description: "Hallucination score (0 to scale, default 0-1)",
    },
    {
      name: "info",
      type: "object",
      description: "Object containing the reason for the score",
      properties: [
        {
          type: "string",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "reason",
              type: "string",
              description:
                "Detailed explanation of the score and identified contradictions",
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## Scoring Details

The metric evaluates hallucination through contradiction detection and numerical precision analysis.

### Scoring Process

1. Analyzes factual content:
   - Extracts statements from context
   - Identifies numerical values
   - Maps statement relationships

2. Analyzes output for contradictions:
   - Compares against context statements
   - Marks direct conflicts as contradictions
   - Evaluates numerical accuracy
   - Considers approximation context

3. Calculates hallucination score:
   - Counts contradicted statements
   - Divides by total statements
   - Scales to configured range

Final score: `(contradicted_statements / total_statements) * scale`

### Important Considerations

- Speculative language ("might", "possibly", "believe") does not constitute contradictions
- Additional information beyond context scope is allowed unless it directly conflicts
- Empty outputs result in zero contradictions
- Numerical evaluation considers:
  - Scale-appropriate precision
  - Contextual approximations
  - Explicit precision indicators

### Score interpretation
(0 to scale, default 0-1)
- 1.0: Complete hallucination - contradicts all context statements
- 0.75: High hallucination - contradicts 75% of context statements
- 0.5: Moderate hallucination - contradicts half of context statements
- 0.25: Low hallucination - contradicts 25% of context statements
- 0.0: No hallucination - output aligns with all context statements

**Note:** The score represents the degree of hallucination - lower scores indicate better factual alignment with the provided context

## Example with Analysis

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { HallucinationMetric } from "@mastra/evals/llm";

// Configure the model for evaluation
const model = openai("gpt-4o-mini");

const metric = new HallucinationMetric(model, {
  context: [
    "OpenAI was founded in December 2015 by Sam Altman, Greg Brockman, and others.",
    "The company launched with a $1 billion investment commitment.",
    "Elon Musk was an early supporter but left the board in 2018.",
  ],
});

const result = await metric.measure({
  input: "What are the key details about OpenAI?",
  output:
    "OpenAI was founded in 2015 by Elon Musk and Sam Altman with a $2 billion investment.",
});

// Example output:
// {
//   score: 0.33,
//   info: {
//     reason: "The score is 0.33 because one out of three statements from the context
//           was contradicted (the investment amount was stated as $2 billion instead
//           of $1 billion). The founding date was correct, and while the output's
//           description of founders was incomplete, it wasn't strictly contradictory."
//   }
// }
```

## Related

- [Faithfulness Metric](./faithfulness)
- [Answer Relevancy Metric](./answer-relevancy)
- [Context Precision Metric](./context-precision)
- [Context Relevancy Metric](./context-relevancy)

Commit message:

[MASTRA-2101] updated hallucination metric (#2846)
This PR updates the hallucination metric to be more strict regarding
unsupported claims. Output not present in context is treated as
hallucinations.

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/evals/hallucination.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Hallucination | Metrics | Evals | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the Hallucination Metric in Mastra, which evaluates the factual correctness of LLM outputs by identifying contradictions with provided context.
---

# HallucinationMetric

The `HallucinationMetric` evaluates whether an LLM generates factually correct information by comparing its output against the provided context. This metric measures hallucination by identifying direct contradictions between the context and the output.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { HallucinationMetric } from "@mastra/evals/llm";

// Configure the model for evaluation
const model = openai("gpt-4o-mini");

const metric = new HallucinationMetric(model, {
  context: [
    "Tesla was founded in 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning in San Carlos, California.",
  ],
});

const result = await metric.measure(
  "Tell me about Tesla's founding.",
  "Tesla was founded in 2004 by Elon Musk in California.",
);

console.log(result.score); // Score from 0-1
console.log(result.info.reason); // Explanation of the score

// Example output:
// {
//   score: 0.67,
//   info: {
//     reason: "The score is 0.67 because two out of three statements from the context
//           (founding year and founders) were contradicted by the output, while the
//           location statement was not contradicted."
//   }
// }
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "LanguageModel",
      description: "Configuration for the model used to evaluate hallucination",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "HallucinationMetricOptions",
      description: "Configuration options for the metric",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

### HallucinationMetricOptions

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "scale",
      type: "number",
      description: "Maximum score value",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1",
    },
    {
      name: "context",
      type: "string[]",
      description: "Array of context pieces used as the source of truth",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

## measure() Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string",
      description: "The original query or prompt",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "output",
      type: "string",
      description: "The LLM's response to evaluate",
      isOptional: false,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "score",
      type: "number",
      description: "Hallucination score (0 to scale, default 0-1)",
    },
    {
      name: "info",
      type: "object",
      description: "Object containing the reason for the score",
      properties: [
        {
          type: "string",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "reason",
              type: "string",
              description:
                "Detailed explanation of the score and identified contradictions",
            },
          ],
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## Scoring Details

The metric evaluates hallucination through contradiction detection and unsupported claim analysis.

### Scoring Process

1. Analyzes factual content:
   - Extracts statements from context
   - Identifies numerical values and dates
   - Maps statement relationships

2. Analyzes output for hallucinations:
   - Compares against context statements
   - Marks direct conflicts as hallucinations
   - Identifies unsupported claims as hallucinations
   - Evaluates numerical accuracy
   - Considers approximation context

3. Calculates hallucination score:
   - Counts hallucinated statements (contradictions and unsupported claims)
   - Divides by total statements
   - Scales to configured range

Final score: `(hallucinated_statements / total_statements) * scale`

### Important Considerations

- Claims not present in context are treated as hallucinations
- Subjective claims are hallucinations unless explicitly supported
- Speculative language ("might", "possibly") about facts IN context is allowed
- Speculative language about facts NOT in context is treated as hallucination
- Empty outputs result in zero hallucinations
- Numerical evaluation considers:
  - Scale-appropriate precision
  - Contextual approximations
  - Explicit precision indicators

### Score interpretation
(0 to scale, default 0-1)
- 1.0: Complete hallucination - contradicts all context statements
- 0.75: High hallucination - contradicts 75% of context statements
- 0.5: Moderate hallucination - contradicts half of context statements
- 0.25: Low hallucination - contradicts 25% of context statements
- 0.0: No hallucination - output aligns with all context statements

**Note:** The score represents the degree of hallucination - lower scores indicate better factual alignment with the provided context

## Example with Analysis

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { HallucinationMetric } from "@mastra/evals/llm";

// Configure the model for evaluation
const model = openai("gpt-4o-mini");

const metric = new HallucinationMetric(model, {
  context: [
    "OpenAI was founded in December 2015 by Sam Altman, Greg Brockman, and others.",
    "The company launched with a $1 billion investment commitment.",
    "Elon Musk was an early supporter but left the board in 2018.",
  ],
});

const result = await metric.measure({
  input: "What are the key details about OpenAI?",
  output:
    "OpenAI was founded in 2015 by Elon Musk and Sam Altman with a $2 billion investment.",
});

// Example output:
// {
//   score: 0.33,
//   info: {
//     reason: "The score is 0.33 because one out of three statements from the context
//           was contradicted (the investment amount was stated as $2 billion instead
//           of $1 billion). The founding date was correct, and while the output's
//           description of founders was incomplete, it wasn't strictly contradictory."
//   }
// }
```

## Related

- [Faithfulness Metric](./faithfulness)
- [Answer Relevancy Metric](./answer-relevancy)
- [Context Precision Metric](./context-precision)
- [Context Relevancy Metric](./context-relevancy)
