docs/src/pages/docs/reference/evals/keyword-coverage.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: Keyword Coverage | Metrics | Evals | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the Keyword Coverage Metric in Mastra, which evaluates how well LLM outputs cover important keywords from the input.
---

# KeywordCoverageMetric

The `KeywordCoverageMetric` class evaluates how well an LLM's output covers the important keywords from the input. It analyzes keyword presence and matches while ignoring common words and stop words.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { KeywordCoverageMetric } from "@mastra/evals/nlp";

const metric = new KeywordCoverageMetric();

const result = await metric.measure(
  "What are the key features of Python programming language?",
  "Python is a high-level programming language known for its simple syntax and extensive libraries."
);

console.log(result.score); // Coverage score from 0-1
console.log(result.info); // Object containing detailed metrics about keyword coverage
```

## measure() Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string",
      description: "The original text containing keywords to be matched",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "output",
      type: "string",
      description: "The text to evaluate for keyword coverage",
      isOptional: false,
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "score",
      type: "number",
      description: "Coverage score (0-1) representing the proportion of matched keywords",
    },
    {
      name: "info",
      type: "object",
      description: "Object containing detailed metrics about keyword coverage",
      properties: [
        {
          type: "number",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "matchedKeywords",
              type: "number",
              description: "Number of keywords found in the output",
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          type: "number",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "totalKeywords",
              type: "number",
              description: "Total number of keywords from the input",
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
/>

## Keyword Processing Details

The metric processes keywords with the following features:
- Ignores common words and stop words (e.g., "the", "a", "and")
- Case-insensitive matching
- Handles variations in word forms
- Ignores numbers by default
- Special handling of technical terms and compound words

Score interpretation:
- 1.0: Perfect keyword coverage
- 0.7-0.9: Good coverage with most keywords present
- 0.4-0.6: Moderate coverage with some keywords missing
- 0.1-0.3: Poor coverage with many keywords missing
- 0.0: No keyword matches

## Examples with Analysis

```typescript
import { KeywordCoverageMetric } from "@mastra/evals/nlp";

const metric = new KeywordCoverageMetric();

// Perfect coverage example
const result1 = await metric.measure(
  "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog",
  "A quick brown fox jumped over a lazy dog"
);
// {
//   score: 1.0,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 6,
//     totalKeywords: 6
//   }
// }

// Partial coverage example
const result2 = await metric.measure(
  "Python features include easy syntax, dynamic typing, and extensive libraries",
  "Python has simple syntax and many libraries"
);
// {
//   score: 0.67,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 4,
//     totalKeywords: 6
//   }
// }

// Technical terms example
const result3 = await metric.measure(
  "Discuss React.js component lifecycle and state management",
  "React components have lifecycle methods and manage state"
);
// {
//   score: 1.0,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 4,
//     totalKeywords: 4
//   }
// }
```

## Special Cases

The metric handles several special cases:
- Empty input/output: Returns score of 1.0 if both empty, 0.0 if only one is empty
- Single word: Treated as a single keyword
- Technical terms: Preserves compound technical terms (e.g., "React.js", "machine learning")
- Case differences: "JavaScript" matches "javascript"
- Common words: Ignored in scoring to focus on meaningful keywords

## Related

- [Completeness Metric](./completeness)
- [Content Similarity Metric](./content-similarity)
- [Answer Relevancy Metric](./answer-relevancy)
- [Textual Difference Metric](./textual-difference)
- [Context Relevancy Metric](./context-relevancy)

Commit message:

[MASTRA-1893] Evals Reference Docs update (#1926)
This PR makes a more standardized scoring details section for each
metric.

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/evals/keyword-coverage.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Keyword Coverage | Metrics | Evals | Mastra Docs"
description: Documentation for the Keyword Coverage Metric in Mastra, which evaluates how well LLM outputs cover important keywords from the input.
---

# KeywordCoverageMetric

The `KeywordCoverageMetric` class evaluates how well an LLM's output covers the important keywords from the input. It analyzes keyword presence and matches while ignoring common words and stop words.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { KeywordCoverageMetric } from "@mastra/evals/nlp";

const metric = new KeywordCoverageMetric();

const result = await metric.measure(
  "What are the key features of Python programming language?",
  "Python is a high-level programming language known for its simple syntax and extensive libraries."
);

console.log(result.score); // Coverage score from 0-1
console.log(result.info); // Object containing detailed metrics about keyword coverage
```

## measure() Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string",
      description: "The original text containing keywords to be matched",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "output",
      type: "string",
      description: "The text to evaluate for keyword coverage",
      isOptional: false,
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "score",
      type: "number",
      description: "Coverage score (0-1) representing the proportion of matched keywords",
    },
    {
      name: "info",
      type: "object",
      description: "Object containing detailed metrics about keyword coverage",
      properties: [
        {
          type: "number",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "matchedKeywords",
              type: "number",
              description: "Number of keywords found in the output",
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          type: "number",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "totalKeywords",
              type: "number",
              description: "Total number of keywords from the input",
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
/>

## Scoring Details

The metric evaluates keyword coverage by matching keywords with the following features:
- Common word and stop word filtering (e.g., "the", "a", "and")
- Case-insensitive matching
- Word form variation handling
- Special handling of technical terms and compound words

### Scoring Process

1. Processes keywords from input and output:
   - Filters out common words and stop words
   - Normalizes case and word forms
   - Handles special terms and compounds

2. Calculates keyword coverage:
   - Matches keywords between texts
   - Counts successful matches
   - Computes coverage ratio

Final score: `(matched_keywords / total_keywords) * scale`

### Score interpretation
(0 to scale, default 0-1)
- 1.0: Perfect keyword coverage
- 0.7-0.9: Good coverage with most keywords present
- 0.4-0.6: Moderate coverage with some keywords missing
- 0.1-0.3: Poor coverage with many keywords missing
- 0.0: No keyword matches

## Examples with Analysis

```typescript
import { KeywordCoverageMetric } from "@mastra/evals/nlp";

const metric = new KeywordCoverageMetric();

// Perfect coverage example
const result1 = await metric.measure(
  "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog",
  "A quick brown fox jumped over a lazy dog"
);
// {
//   score: 1.0,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 6,
//     totalKeywords: 6
//   }
// }

// Partial coverage example
const result2 = await metric.measure(
  "Python features include easy syntax, dynamic typing, and extensive libraries",
  "Python has simple syntax and many libraries"
);
// {
//   score: 0.67,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 4,
//     totalKeywords: 6
//   }
// }

// Technical terms example
const result3 = await metric.measure(
  "Discuss React.js component lifecycle and state management",
  "React components have lifecycle methods and manage state"
);
// {
//   score: 1.0,
//   info: {
//     matchedKeywords: 4,
//     totalKeywords: 4
//   }
// }
```

## Special Cases

The metric handles several special cases:
- Empty input/output: Returns score of 1.0 if both empty, 0.0 if only one is empty
- Single word: Treated as a single keyword
- Technical terms: Preserves compound technical terms (e.g., "React.js", "machine learning")
- Case differences: "JavaScript" matches "javascript"
- Common words: Ignored in scoring to focus on meaningful keywords

## Related

- [Completeness Metric](./completeness)
- [Content Similarity Metric](./content-similarity)
- [Answer Relevancy Metric](./answer-relevancy)
- [Textual Difference Metric](./textual-difference)
- [Context Relevancy Metric](./context-relevancy)
