docs/src/pages/docs/rag/vector-databases.mdx, before:

---
title: "Storing Embeddings in A Vector Database | Mastra Docs"
description: Guide on vector storage options in Mastra, including embedded and dedicated vector databases for similarity search.
---

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

## Storing Embeddings in A Vector Database

After generating embeddings, you need to store them in a database that supports vector similarity search. Mastra provides a consistent interface for storing and querying embeddings across different vector databases.

## Supported Databases

<Tabs items={['Pg Vector', 'Pinecone', 'Qdrant', 'Chroma', 'Astra', 'LibSQL', 'Upstash', 'Cloudflare']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { PgVector } from '@mastra/pg';

  const store = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING)
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });

  ```

  ### Using PostgreSQL with pgvector

  PostgreSQL with the pgvector extension is a good solution for teams already using PostgreSQL who want to minimize infrastructure complexity. 
  For detailed setup instructions and best practices, see the [official pgvector repository](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector).
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { PineconeVector } from '@mastra/pinecone'

  const store = new PineconeVector(process.env.PINECONE_API_KEY)
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { QdrantVector } from '@mastra/qdrant'

  const store = new QdrantVector({
    url: process.env.QDRANT_URL,
    apiKey: process.env.QDRANT_API_KEY
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { ChromaVector } from '@mastra/chroma'

  const store = new ChromaVector()
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { AstraVector } from '@mastra/astra'

  const store = new AstraVector({
    token: process.env.ASTRA_DB_TOKEN,
    endpoint: process.env.ASTRA_DB_ENDPOINT,
    keyspace: process.env.ASTRA_DB_KEYSPACE
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";

  const store = new LibSQLVector({
    connectionUrl: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
    authToken: process.env.DATABASE_AUTH_TOKEN // Optional: for Turso cloud databases
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { UpstashVector } from '@mastra/upstash'

  const store = new UpstashVector({
    url: process.env.UPSTASH_URL,
    token: process.env.UPSTASH_TOKEN
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { CloudflareVector } from '@mastra/vectorize'

  const store = new CloudflareVector({
    accountId: process.env.CF_ACCOUNT_ID,
    apiToken: process.env.CF_API_TOKEN
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Using Vector Storage

Once initialized, all vector stores share the same interface for creating indexes, upserting embeddings, and querying.

### Creating Indexes

Before storing embeddings, you need to create an index with the appropriate dimension size for your embedding model:

```ts filename="store-embeddings.ts" showLineNumbers copy
// Create an index with dimension 1536 (for text-embedding-3-small)
await store.createIndex({
  indexName: 'myCollection',
  dimension: 1536,
});

// For other models, use their corresponding dimensions:
// - text-embedding-3-large: 3072
// - text-embedding-ada-002: 1536
// - cohere-embed-multilingual-v3: 1024
```

The dimension size must match the output dimension of your chosen embedding model. Common dimension sizes are:
- OpenAI text-embedding-3-small: 1536 dimensions
- OpenAI text-embedding-3-large: 3072 dimensions
- Cohere embed-multilingual-v3: 1024 dimensions

### Naming Rules for Databases

Each vector database enforces specific naming conventions for indexes and collections to ensure compatibility and prevent conflicts.

<Tabs items={['Pg Vector', 'Pinecone', 'Qdrant', 'Chroma', 'Astra', 'LibSQL', 'Upstash', 'Cloudflare']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter or underscore
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_index_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-index` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Use only lowercase letters, numbers, and dashes
    - Not contain dots (used for DNS routing)
    - Not use non-Latin characters or emojis
    - Have a combined length (with project ID) under 52 characters
      - Example: `my-index-123` is valid
      - Example: `my.index` is not valid (contains dot)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Be 1-255 characters long
    - Not contain any of these special characters:
      - `< > : " / \ | ? *`
      - Null character (`\0`)
      - Unit separator (`\u{1F}`)
    - Example: `my_collection_123` is valid
    - Example: `my/collection` is not valid (contains slash)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Be 3-63 characters long
    - Start and end with a letter or number
    - Contain only letters, numbers, underscores, or hyphens
    - Not contain consecutive periods (..)
    - Not be a valid IPv4 address
    - Example: `my-collection-123` is valid
    - Example: `my..collection` is not valid (consecutive periods)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Not be empty
    - Be 48 characters or less
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_collection_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-collection` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter or underscore
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_index_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-index` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Namespace names must:
    - Be 2-100 characters long
    - Contain only:
      - Alphanumeric characters (a-z, A-Z, 0-9)
      - Underscores, hyphens, dots
    - Not start or end with special characters (_, -, .)
    - Can be case-sensitive
    - Example: `MyNamespace123` is valid
    - Example: `_namespace` is not valid (starts with underscore)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter
    - Be shorter than 32 characters
    - Contain only lowercase ASCII letters, numbers, and dashes
    - Use dashes instead of spaces
    - Example: `my-index-123` is valid
    - Example: `My_Index` is not valid (uppercase and underscore)
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Upserting Embeddings

After creating an index, you can store embeddings along with their basic metadata:

```ts filename="store-embeddings.ts" showLineNumbers copy
// Store embeddings with their corresponding metadata
await store.upsert({
  indexName: 'myCollection',  // index name
  vectors: embeddings,       // array of embedding vectors
  metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({
    text: chunk.text,  // The original text content
    id: chunk.id       // Optional unique identifier
  }))
});
```

The upsert operation:
- Takes an array of embedding vectors and their corresponding metadata
- Updates existing vectors if they share the same ID
- Creates new vectors if they don't exist
- Automatically handles batching for large datasets

For complete examples of upserting embeddings in different vector stores, see the [Upsert Embeddings](../../examples/rag/upsert/upsert-embeddings.mdx) guide.

## Adding Metadata

Vector stores support rich metadata (any JSON-serializable fields) for filtering and organization. Since metadata is stored with no fixed schema, use consistent field naming to avoid unexpected query results.

**Important**: Metadata is crucial for vector storage - without it, you'd only have numerical embeddings with no way to return the original text or filter results. Always store at least the source text as metadata.

```ts showLineNumbers copy
// Store embeddings with rich metadata for better organization and filtering
await store.upsert({
  indexName: "myCollection",
  vectors: embeddings,
  metadata: chunks.map((chunk) => ({
    // Basic content
    text: chunk.text,
    id: chunk.id,
    
    // Document organization
    source: chunk.source,
    category: chunk.category,
    
    // Temporal metadata
    createdAt: new Date().toISOString(),
    version: "1.0",
    
    // Custom fields
    language: chunk.language,
    author: chunk.author,
    confidenceScore: chunk.score,
  })),
});
```

Key metadata considerations:
- Be strict with field naming - inconsistencies like 'category' vs 'Category' will affect queries
- Only include fields you plan to filter or sort by - extra fields add overhead
- Add timestamps (e.g., 'createdAt', 'lastUpdated') to track content freshness

## Best Practices

- Create indexes before bulk insertions
- Use batch operations for large insertions (the upsert method handles batching automatically)
- Only store metadata you'll query against
- Match embedding dimensions to your model (e.g., 1536 for `text-embedding-3-small`)

Commit message:

updated docs about index creation

docs/src/pages/docs/rag/vector-databases.mdx, after:

---
title: "Storing Embeddings in A Vector Database | Mastra Docs"
description: Guide on vector storage options in Mastra, including embedded and dedicated vector databases for similarity search.
---

import { Tabs } from "nextra/components";

## Storing Embeddings in A Vector Database

After generating embeddings, you need to store them in a database that supports vector similarity search. Mastra provides a consistent interface for storing and querying embeddings across different vector databases.

## Supported Databases

<Tabs items={['Pg Vector', 'Pinecone', 'Qdrant', 'Chroma', 'Astra', 'LibSQL', 'Upstash', 'Cloudflare']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { PgVector } from '@mastra/pg';

  const store = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING)
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });

  ```

  ### Using PostgreSQL with pgvector

  PostgreSQL with the pgvector extension is a good solution for teams already using PostgreSQL who want to minimize infrastructure complexity. 
  For detailed setup instructions and best practices, see the [official pgvector repository](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector).
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { PineconeVector } from '@mastra/pinecone'

  const store = new PineconeVector(process.env.PINECONE_API_KEY)
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { QdrantVector } from '@mastra/qdrant'

  const store = new QdrantVector({
    url: process.env.QDRANT_URL,
    apiKey: process.env.QDRANT_API_KEY
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { ChromaVector } from '@mastra/chroma'

  const store = new ChromaVector()
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { AstraVector } from '@mastra/astra'

  const store = new AstraVector({
    token: process.env.ASTRA_DB_TOKEN,
    endpoint: process.env.ASTRA_DB_ENDPOINT,
    keyspace: process.env.ASTRA_DB_KEYSPACE
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";

  const store = new LibSQLVector({
    connectionUrl: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
    authToken: process.env.DATABASE_AUTH_TOKEN // Optional: for Turso cloud databases
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { UpstashVector } from '@mastra/upstash'

  const store = new UpstashVector({
    url: process.env.UPSTASH_URL,
    token: process.env.UPSTASH_TOKEN
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
<Tabs.Tab>
  ```ts filename="vector-store.ts" showLineNumbers copy
  import { CloudflareVector } from '@mastra/vectorize'

  const store = new CloudflareVector({
    accountId: process.env.CF_ACCOUNT_ID,
    apiToken: process.env.CF_API_TOKEN
  })
  await store.createIndex({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    dimension: 1536,
  });
  await store.upsert({
    indexName: "myCollection",
    vectors: embeddings,
    metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({ text: chunk.text })),
  });
  ```
</Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Using Vector Storage

Once initialized, all vector stores share the same interface for creating indexes, upserting embeddings, and querying.

### Creating Indexes

Before storing embeddings, you need to create an index with the appropriate dimension size for your embedding model:

```ts filename="store-embeddings.ts" showLineNumbers copy
// Create an index with dimension 1536 (for text-embedding-3-small)
await store.createIndex({
  indexName: 'myCollection',
  dimension: 1536,
});

// For other models, use their corresponding dimensions:
// - text-embedding-3-large: 3072
// - text-embedding-ada-002: 1536
// - cohere-embed-multilingual-v3: 1024
```

The dimension size must match the output dimension of your chosen embedding model. Common dimension sizes are:
- OpenAI text-embedding-3-small: 1536 dimensions
- OpenAI text-embedding-3-large: 3072 dimensions
- Cohere embed-multilingual-v3: 1024 dimensions

> **Important**: Index dimensions cannot be changed after creation. To use a different model, delete and recreate the index with the new dimension size.

### Naming Rules for Databases

Each vector database enforces specific naming conventions for indexes and collections to ensure compatibility and prevent conflicts.

<Tabs items={['Pg Vector', 'Pinecone', 'Qdrant', 'Chroma', 'Astra', 'LibSQL', 'Upstash', 'Cloudflare']}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter or underscore
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_index_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-index` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Use only lowercase letters, numbers, and dashes
    - Not contain dots (used for DNS routing)
    - Not use non-Latin characters or emojis
    - Have a combined length (with project ID) under 52 characters
      - Example: `my-index-123` is valid
      - Example: `my.index` is not valid (contains dot)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Be 1-255 characters long
    - Not contain any of these special characters:
      - `< > : " / \ | ? *`
      - Null character (`\0`)
      - Unit separator (`\u{1F}`)
    - Example: `my_collection_123` is valid
    - Example: `my/collection` is not valid (contains slash)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Be 3-63 characters long
    - Start and end with a letter or number
    - Contain only letters, numbers, underscores, or hyphens
    - Not contain consecutive periods (..)
    - Not be a valid IPv4 address
    - Example: `my-collection-123` is valid
    - Example: `my..collection` is not valid (consecutive periods)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Collection names must:
    - Not be empty
    - Be 48 characters or less
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_collection_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-collection` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter or underscore
    - Contain only letters, numbers, and underscores
    - Example: `my_index_123` is valid
    - Example: `my-index` is not valid (contains hyphen)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Namespace names must:
    - Be 2-100 characters long
    - Contain only:
      - Alphanumeric characters (a-z, A-Z, 0-9)
      - Underscores, hyphens, dots
    - Not start or end with special characters (_, -, .)
    - Can be case-sensitive
    - Example: `MyNamespace123` is valid
    - Example: `_namespace` is not valid (starts with underscore)
  </Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    Index names must:
    - Start with a letter
    - Be shorter than 32 characters
    - Contain only lowercase ASCII letters, numbers, and dashes
    - Use dashes instead of spaces
    - Example: `my-index-123` is valid
    - Example: `My_Index` is not valid (uppercase and underscore)
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

### Upserting Embeddings

After creating an index, you can store embeddings along with their basic metadata:

```ts filename="store-embeddings.ts" showLineNumbers copy
// Store embeddings with their corresponding metadata
await store.upsert({
  indexName: 'myCollection',  // index name
  vectors: embeddings,       // array of embedding vectors
  metadata: chunks.map(chunk => ({
    text: chunk.text,  // The original text content
    id: chunk.id       // Optional unique identifier
  }))
});
```

The upsert operation:
- Takes an array of embedding vectors and their corresponding metadata
- Updates existing vectors if they share the same ID
- Creates new vectors if they don't exist
- Automatically handles batching for large datasets

For complete examples of upserting embeddings in different vector stores, see the [Upsert Embeddings](../../examples/rag/upsert/upsert-embeddings.mdx) guide.

## Adding Metadata

Vector stores support rich metadata (any JSON-serializable fields) for filtering and organization. Since metadata is stored with no fixed schema, use consistent field naming to avoid unexpected query results.

**Important**: Metadata is crucial for vector storage - without it, you'd only have numerical embeddings with no way to return the original text or filter results. Always store at least the source text as metadata.

```ts showLineNumbers copy
// Store embeddings with rich metadata for better organization and filtering
await store.upsert({
  indexName: "myCollection",
  vectors: embeddings,
  metadata: chunks.map((chunk) => ({
    // Basic content
    text: chunk.text,
    id: chunk.id,
    
    // Document organization
    source: chunk.source,
    category: chunk.category,
    
    // Temporal metadata
    createdAt: new Date().toISOString(),
    version: "1.0",
    
    // Custom fields
    language: chunk.language,
    author: chunk.author,
    confidenceScore: chunk.score,
  })),
});
```

Key metadata considerations:
- Be strict with field naming - inconsistencies like 'category' vs 'Category' will affect queries
- Only include fields you plan to filter or sort by - extra fields add overhead
- Add timestamps (e.g., 'createdAt', 'lastUpdated') to track content freshness

## Best Practices

- Create indexes before bulk insertions
- Use batch operations for large insertions (the upsert method handles batching automatically)
- Only store metadata you'll query against
- Match embedding dimensions to your model (e.g., 1536 for `text-embedding-3-small`)
