docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/composite-voice.mdx, before:

# CompositeVoice Reference

The CompositeVoice class allows you to combine different voice providers for text-to-speech and speech-to-text operations. This is particularly useful when you want to use the best provider for each operation - for example, using OpenAI for speech-to-text and PlayAI for text-to-speech.

CompositeVoice is used internally by the Agent class to provide flexible voice capabilities.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { CompositeVoice } from "@mastra/core/voice";
import { OpenAIVoice } from "@mastra/voice-openai";
import { PlayAIVoice } from "@mastra/voice-playai";

// Create voice providers
const openai = new OpenAIVoice();
const playai = new PlayAIVoice();

// Use OpenAI for listening (speech-to-text) and PlayAI for speaking (text-to-speech)
const voice = new CompositeVoice({
  listeningProvider: openai,
  speakingProvider: playai
});

// Convert speech to text using OpenAI
const text = await voice.listen(audioStream);

// Convert text to speech using PlayAI
const audio = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "config",
      type: "object",
      description: "Configuration object for the composite voice service",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "config.listeningProvider",
      type: "MastraVoice",
      description: "Voice provider to use for speech-to-text operations",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "config.speakingProvider",
      type: "MastraVoice",
      description: "Voice provider to use for text-to-speech operations",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speaking provider.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: string;
    [key: string]: any;
  }
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Provider-specific options passed to the speaking provider",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Notes
- If no speaking provider is configured, this method will throw an error
- Options are passed through to the configured speaking provider
- Returns a stream of audio data

### listen()

Converts speech to text using the configured listening provider.

```typescript
async listen(
  audioStream: NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    [key: string]: any;
  }
): Promise<string | NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to convert to text",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Provider-specific options passed to the listening provider",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Notes
- If no listening provider is configured, this method will throw an error
- Options are passed through to the configured listening provider
- Returns either a string or a stream of transcribed text, depending on the provider

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voices from the speaking provider.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string; [key: string]: any }>>
```

#### Notes
- Returns voices from the speaking provider only
- If no speaking provider is configured, returns an empty array
- Each voice object will have at least a voiceId property
- Additional voice properties depend on the speaking provider

## Notes

- CompositeVoice implements the MastraVoice interface
- Each provider maintains its own configuration and state
- Error handling should consider both providers' potential failure modes
- Ideal for scenarios where different providers excel at different operations

## Related

- [MastraVoice Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [OpenAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/openai.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [PlayAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/playai.mdx)
- [Speechify Voice Reference](/reference/voice/speechify.mdx)

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/composite-voice.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: CompositeVoice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the CompositeVoice class, which enables combining multiple voice providers for flexible text-to-speech and speech-to-text operations."
---

# CompositeVoice Reference

The CompositeVoice class allows you to combine different voice providers for text-to-speech and speech-to-text operations. This is particularly useful when you want to use the best provider for each operation - for example, using OpenAI for speech-to-text and PlayAI for text-to-speech.

CompositeVoice is used internally by the Agent class to provide flexible voice capabilities.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { CompositeVoice } from "@mastra/core/voice";
import { OpenAIVoice } from "@mastra/voice-openai";
import { PlayAIVoice } from "@mastra/voice-playai";

// Create voice providers
const openai = new OpenAIVoice();
const playai = new PlayAIVoice();

// Use OpenAI for listening (speech-to-text) and PlayAI for speaking (text-to-speech)
const voice = new CompositeVoice({
  listeningProvider: openai,
  speakingProvider: playai
});

// Convert speech to text using OpenAI
const text = await voice.listen(audioStream);

// Convert text to speech using PlayAI
const audio = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "config",
      type: "object",
      description: "Configuration object for the composite voice service",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "config.listeningProvider",
      type: "MastraVoice",
      description: "Voice provider to use for speech-to-text operations",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "config.speakingProvider",
      type: "MastraVoice",
      description: "Voice provider to use for text-to-speech operations",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speaking provider.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: string;
    [key: string]: any;
  }
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Provider-specific options passed to the speaking provider",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Notes
- If no speaking provider is configured, this method will throw an error
- Options are passed through to the configured speaking provider
- Returns a stream of audio data

### listen()

Converts speech to text using the configured listening provider.

```typescript
async listen(
  audioStream: NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    [key: string]: any;
  }
): Promise<string | NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to convert to text",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Provider-specific options passed to the listening provider",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Notes
- If no listening provider is configured, this method will throw an error
- Options are passed through to the configured listening provider
- Returns either a string or a stream of transcribed text, depending on the provider

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voices from the speaking provider.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string; [key: string]: any }>>
```

#### Notes
- Returns voices from the speaking provider only
- If no speaking provider is configured, returns an empty array
- Each voice object will have at least a voiceId property
- Additional voice properties depend on the speaking provider

## Notes

- CompositeVoice implements the MastraVoice interface
- Each provider maintains its own configuration and state
- Error handling should consider both providers' potential failure modes
- Ideal for scenarios where different providers excel at different operations

## Related

- [MastraVoice Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [OpenAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/openai.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [PlayAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/playai.mdx)
- [Speechify Voice Reference](/reference/voice/speechify.mdx)
