docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx, before:

# Deepgram Voice Reference

The Deepgram voice implementation in Mastra provides text-to-speech (TTS) and speech-to-text (STT) capabilities using Deepgram's API. It supports multiple voice models and languages, with configurable options for both speech synthesis and transcription.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { DeepgramVoice } from "@mastra/voice-deepgram";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses DEEPGRAM_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new DeepgramVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new DeepgramVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'aura',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  listeningModel: {
    name: 'nova-2',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'asteria-en',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");

// Speech-to-Text
const transcript = await voice.listen(audioStream);
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'aura', apiKey: process.env.DEEPGRAM_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'nova', apiKey: process.env.DEEPGRAM_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'asteria-en'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### DeepgramVoiceConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "DeepgramModel",
      description: "The Deepgram model to use",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Deepgram API key. Falls back to DEEPGRAM_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "properties",
      type: "Record<string, any>",
      description: "Additional properties to pass to the Deepgram API",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "language",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code for the model",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### listen()

Converts speech to text using the configured listening model.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options to pass to the Deepgram API",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<string>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options.

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: DeepgramVoiceId }>>`

## Available Models and Voices

### Speech Models (DeepgramModel)
- `aura`: Default model for text-to-speech
- `base`: Base model for speech recognition
- `enhanced`: Enhanced speech recognition model
- `nova`: Nova model for speech recognition (default for listening)
- `nova-2`: Improved Nova model
- `nova-3`: Latest Nova model

### Voice Options (DeepgramVoiceId)
- `asteria-en`: Default English voice
- `luna-en`: English voice
- `stella-en`: English voice
- `athena-en`: English voice
- `hera-en`: English voice
- `orion-en`: English voice
- `arcas-en`: English voice
- `perseus-en`: English voice
- `angus-en`: English voice
- `orpheus-en`: English voice
- `helios-en`: English voice
- `zeus-en`: English voice

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Deepgram Voice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the Deepgram voice implementation, providing text-to-speech and speech-to-text capabilities with multiple voice models and languages."
---

# Deepgram Voice Reference

The Deepgram voice implementation in Mastra provides text-to-speech (TTS) and speech-to-text (STT) capabilities using Deepgram's API. It supports multiple voice models and languages, with configurable options for both speech synthesis and transcription.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { DeepgramVoice } from "@mastra/voice-deepgram";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses DEEPGRAM_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new DeepgramVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new DeepgramVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'aura',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  listeningModel: {
    name: 'nova-2',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'asteria-en',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");

// Speech-to-Text
const transcript = await voice.listen(audioStream);
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'aura', apiKey: process.env.DEEPGRAM_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'nova', apiKey: process.env.DEEPGRAM_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "DeepgramVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'asteria-en'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### DeepgramVoiceConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "DeepgramModel",
      description: "The Deepgram model to use",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Deepgram API key. Falls back to DEEPGRAM_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "properties",
      type: "Record<string, any>",
      description: "Additional properties to pass to the Deepgram API",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "language",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code for the model",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### listen()

Converts speech to text using the configured listening model.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options to pass to the Deepgram API",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<string>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options.

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: DeepgramVoiceId }>>`

## Available Models and Voices

### Speech Models (DeepgramModel)
- `aura`: Default model for text-to-speech
- `base`: Base model for speech recognition
- `enhanced`: Enhanced speech recognition model
- `nova`: Nova model for speech recognition (default for listening)
- `nova-2`: Improved Nova model
- `nova-3`: Latest Nova model

### Voice Options (DeepgramVoiceId)
- `asteria-en`: Default English voice
- `luna-en`: English voice
- `stella-en`: English voice
- `athena-en`: English voice
- `hera-en`: English voice
- `orion-en`: English voice
- `arcas-en`: English voice
- `perseus-en`: English voice
- `angus-en`: English voice
- `orpheus-en`: English voice
- `helios-en`: English voice
- `zeus-en`: English voice
