docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/elevenlabs.mdx, before:

# ElevenLabs Voice Reference

The ElevenLabs voice implementation in Mastra provides high-quality text-to-speech (TTS) capabilities using the ElevenLabs API. It supports multiple voice models and speakers, with a focus on natural-sounding speech synthesis.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { ElevenLabsVoice } from "@mastra/voice-elevenlabs";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses ELEVENLABS_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new ElevenLabsVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new ElevenLabsVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'eleven_multilingual_v2',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'custom-speaker-id',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");

// Get available speakers
const speakers = await voice.getSpeakers();
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "ElevenLabsVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'eleven_multilingual_v2', apiKey: process.env.ELEVENLABS_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "ID of the speaker to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x' (Aria voice)",
    },
  ]}
/>

### ElevenLabsVoiceConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "ElevenLabsModel",
      description: "The ElevenLabs model to use",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'eleven_multilingual_v2'",
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "ElevenLabs API key. Falls back to ELEVENLABS_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker ID for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options from the ElevenLabs API.

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string, name: string, language: string, gender: string }>>`

### listen()

This method is not supported by ElevenLabs and will throw an error. ElevenLabs does not provide speech-to-text functionality.

## Available Models (ElevenLabsModel)

The following models are available for text-to-speech:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "eleven_multilingual_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Default model with multilingual support",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_flash_v2_5",
      type: "string",
      description: "Flash model version 2.5 for faster generation",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_flash_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Flash model version 2",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_multilingual_sts_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Multilingual model with speech-to-speech support",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_english_sts_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "English-specific model with speech-to-speech support",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Important Notes

1. An ElevenLabs API key is required. Set it via the `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` environment variable or pass it in the constructor.
2. The default speaker is set to Aria (ID: '9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x').
3. Speech-to-text functionality is not supported by ElevenLabs.
4. Available speakers can be retrieved using the `getSpeakers()` method, which returns detailed information about each voice including language and gender.

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/elevenlabs.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: ElevenLabs Voice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the ElevenLabs voice implementation, offering high-quality text-to-speech capabilities with multiple voice models and natural-sounding synthesis."
---

# ElevenLabs Voice Reference

The ElevenLabs voice implementation in Mastra provides high-quality text-to-speech (TTS) capabilities using the ElevenLabs API. It supports multiple voice models and speakers, with a focus on natural-sounding speech synthesis.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { ElevenLabsVoice } from "@mastra/voice-elevenlabs";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses ELEVENLABS_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new ElevenLabsVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new ElevenLabsVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'eleven_multilingual_v2',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'custom-speaker-id',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!");

// Get available speakers
const speakers = await voice.getSpeakers();
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "ElevenLabsVoiceConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'eleven_multilingual_v2', apiKey: process.env.ELEVENLABS_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "ID of the speaker to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x' (Aria voice)",
    },
  ]}
/>

### ElevenLabsVoiceConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "ElevenLabsModel",
      description: "The ElevenLabs model to use",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'eleven_multilingual_v2'",
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "ElevenLabs API key. Falls back to ELEVENLABS_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Additional options for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker ID for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options from the ElevenLabs API.

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string, name: string, language: string, gender: string }>>`

### listen()

This method is not supported by ElevenLabs and will throw an error. ElevenLabs does not provide speech-to-text functionality.

## Available Models (ElevenLabsModel)

The following models are available for text-to-speech:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "eleven_multilingual_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Default model with multilingual support",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_flash_v2_5",
      type: "string",
      description: "Flash model version 2.5 for faster generation",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_flash_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Flash model version 2",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_multilingual_sts_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "Multilingual model with speech-to-speech support",
    },
    {
      name: "eleven_english_sts_v2",
      type: "string",
      description: "English-specific model with speech-to-speech support",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Important Notes

1. An ElevenLabs API key is required. Set it via the `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` environment variable or pass it in the constructor.
2. The default speaker is set to Aria (ID: '9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x').
3. Speech-to-text functionality is not supported by ElevenLabs.
4. Available speakers can be retrieved using the `getSpeakers()` method, which returns detailed information about each voice including language and gender.
