docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/google.mdx, before:

# Google Voice Reference

The Google Voice implementation in Mastra provides both text-to-speech (TTS) and speech-to-text (STT) capabilities using Google Cloud services. It supports multiple voices, languages, and advanced audio configuration options.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { GoogleVoice } from "@mastra/voice-google";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses GOOGLE_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new GoogleVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new GoogleVoice({
  speechModel: {
    apiKey: 'your-speech-api-key',
  },
  listeningModel: {
    apiKey: 'your-listening-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'en-US-Casual-K',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!", {
  languageCode: 'en-US',
  audioConfig: {
    audioEncoding: 'LINEAR16',
  },
});

// Speech-to-Text
const transcript = await voice.listen(audioStream, {
  config: {
    encoding: 'LINEAR16',
    languageCode: 'en-US',
  },
});

// Get available voices for a specific language
const voices = await voice.getSpeakers({ languageCode: 'en-US' });
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "GoogleModelConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ apiKey: process.env.GOOGLE_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "GoogleModelConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ apiKey: process.env.GOOGLE_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Default voice ID to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'en-US-Casual-K'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### GoogleModelConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Google Cloud API key. Falls back to GOOGLE_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using Google Cloud Text-to-Speech service.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Speech synthesis options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Voice ID to use for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.languageCode",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code for the voice (e.g., 'en-US'). Defaults to the language code from the speaker ID or 'en-US'",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.audioConfig",
      type: "ISynthesizeSpeechRequest['audioConfig']",
      description: "Audio configuration options from Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ audioEncoding: 'LINEAR16' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### listen()

Converts speech to text using Google Cloud Speech-to-Text service.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Recognition options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.stream",
      type: "boolean",
      description: "Whether to use streaming recognition",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.config",
      type: "IRecognitionConfig",
      description: "Recognition configuration from Google Cloud Speech-to-Text API",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ encoding: 'LINEAR16', languageCode: 'en-US' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<string>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voices for a specific language.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Options for listing voices",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.languageCode",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code to filter voices by",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'en-US'",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string, languageCodes: string[] }>>`

## Important Notes

1. A Google Cloud API key is required. Set it via the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable or pass it in the constructor.
2. The default voice is set to 'en-US-Casual-K'.
3. Both text-to-speech and speech-to-text services use LINEAR16 as the default audio encoding.
4. The `speak()` method supports advanced audio configuration through the Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API.
5. The `listen()` method supports various recognition configurations through the Google Cloud Speech-to-Text API.
6. Available voices can be filtered by language code using the `getSpeakers()` method.

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/google.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Google Voice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the Google Voice implementation, providing text-to-speech and speech-to-text capabilities."
---

# Google Voice Reference

The Google Voice implementation in Mastra provides both text-to-speech (TTS) and speech-to-text (STT) capabilities using Google Cloud services. It supports multiple voices, languages, and advanced audio configuration options.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { GoogleVoice } from "@mastra/voice-google";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses GOOGLE_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new GoogleVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new GoogleVoice({
  speechModel: {
    apiKey: 'your-speech-api-key',
  },
  listeningModel: {
    apiKey: 'your-listening-api-key',
  },
  speaker: 'en-US-Casual-K',
});

// Text-to-Speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!", {
  languageCode: 'en-US',
  audioConfig: {
    audioEncoding: 'LINEAR16',
  },
});

// Speech-to-Text
const transcript = await voice.listen(audioStream, {
  config: {
    encoding: 'LINEAR16',
    languageCode: 'en-US',
  },
});

// Get available voices for a specific language
const voices = await voice.getSpeakers({ languageCode: 'en-US' });
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "GoogleModelConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ apiKey: process.env.GOOGLE_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "GoogleModelConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ apiKey: process.env.GOOGLE_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Default voice ID to use for text-to-speech",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'en-US-Casual-K'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### GoogleModelConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Google Cloud API key. Falls back to GOOGLE_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using Google Cloud Text-to-Speech service.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Speech synthesis options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Voice ID to use for this request",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.languageCode",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code for the voice (e.g., 'en-US'). Defaults to the language code from the speaker ID or 'en-US'",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.audioConfig",
      type: "ISynthesizeSpeechRequest['audioConfig']",
      description: "Audio configuration options from Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ audioEncoding: 'LINEAR16' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>`

### listen()

Converts speech to text using Google Cloud Speech-to-Text service.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Recognition options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.stream",
      type: "boolean",
      description: "Whether to use streaming recognition",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.config",
      type: "IRecognitionConfig",
      description: "Recognition configuration from Google Cloud Speech-to-Text API",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ encoding: 'LINEAR16', languageCode: 'en-US' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<string>`

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voices for a specific language.

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "object",
      description: "Options for listing voices",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options.languageCode",
      type: "string",
      description: "Language code to filter voices by",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'en-US'",
    },
  ]}
/>

Returns: `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string, languageCodes: string[] }>>`

## Important Notes

1. A Google Cloud API key is required. Set it via the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable or pass it in the constructor.
2. The default voice is set to 'en-US-Casual-K'.
3. Both text-to-speech and speech-to-text services use LINEAR16 as the default audio encoding.
4. The `speak()` method supports advanced audio configuration through the Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API.
5. The `listen()` method supports various recognition configurations through the Google Cloud Speech-to-Text API.
6. Available voices can be filtered by language code using the `getSpeakers()` method.
