docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/openai.mdx, before:

# OpenAIVoice Reference

The OpenAIVoice class in Mastra provides text-to-speech and speech-to-text capabilities using OpenAI's models.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @mastra/voice-openai openai
```

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { OpenAIVoice } from '@mastra/voice-openai';

// Initialize with default configuration using environment variables
const voice = new OpenAIVoice();

// Or initialize with specific configuration
const voiceWithConfig = new OpenAIVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'tts-1-hd',
    apiKey: 'your-openai-api-key'
  },
  listeningModel: {
    name: 'whisper-1',
    apiKey: 'your-openai-api-key'
  },
  speaker: 'alloy'  // Default voice
});

// Convert text to speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak('Hello, how can I help you?', {
  speaker: 'nova',  // Override default voice
  speed: 1.2  // Adjust speech speed
});

// Convert speech to text
const text = await voice.listen(audioStream, {
  filetype: 'mp3'
});
```

## Configuration

### Constructor Options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "OpenAIConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'tts-1', apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "OpenAIConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text recognition.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'whisper-1', apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "OpenAIVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice ID for speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'alloy'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### OpenAIConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "'tts-1' | 'tts-1-hd' | 'whisper-1'",
      description: "Model name. Use 'tts-1-hd' for higher quality audio.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "OpenAI API key. Falls back to OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using OpenAI's text-to-speech models.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: OpenAIVoiceId;
    speed?: number;
  }
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text or text stream to convert to speech.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "OpenAIVoiceId",
      description: "Voice ID to use for speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's speaker value",
    },
    {
      name: "options.speed",
      type: "number",
      description: "Speech speed multiplier.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1.0",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>` containing the generated audio.

### listen()

Transcribes audio using OpenAI's Whisper model.

```typescript
async listen(
  audioStream: NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    filetype?: 'mp3' | 'mp4' | 'mpeg' | 'mpga' | 'm4a' | 'wav' | 'webm';
  }
): Promise<string>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.filetype",
      type: "string",
      description: "Audio format of the input stream.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'mp3'",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<string>` containing the transcribed text.

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available OpenAI voices.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: OpenAIVoiceId }>>
```

#### Returns

A `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: OpenAIVoiceId }>>` containing available voice IDs.

## Types

### OpenAIVoiceId

Available voices for speech synthesis:

```typescript
type OpenAIVoiceId =
  | 'alloy'    // Neutral, versatile voice
  | 'echo'     // Balanced, clear voice
  | 'fable'    // British-accented voice
  | 'onyx'     // Deep, authoritative voice
  | 'nova'     // Warm, engaging voice
  | 'shimmer'  // Clear, energetic voice
  | 'ash'      // Mature, refined voice
  | 'coral'    // Expressive, dynamic voice
  | 'sage';    // Gentle, measured voice
```

### OpenAIModel

Available models for speech synthesis and recognition:

```typescript
type OpenAIModel =
  | 'tts-1'     // Standard quality speech synthesis
  | 'tts-1-hd'  // High-quality speech synthesis
  | 'whisper-1'; // Speech recognition
```

## Notes

- API keys can be provided via constructor options or the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- The `tts-1-hd` model provides higher quality audio but may have slower processing times
- Speech recognition supports multiple audio formats including mp3, wav, and webm

## Related

- [Voice API Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [Google Voice Reference](/reference/voice/google.mdx)

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/openai.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: OpenAI Voice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the OpenAIVoice class, providing text-to-speech and speech-to-text capabilities."
---

# OpenAIVoice Reference

The OpenAIVoice class in Mastra provides text-to-speech and speech-to-text capabilities using OpenAI's models.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @mastra/voice-openai openai
```

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { OpenAIVoice } from '@mastra/voice-openai';

// Initialize with default configuration using environment variables
const voice = new OpenAIVoice();

// Or initialize with specific configuration
const voiceWithConfig = new OpenAIVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'tts-1-hd',
    apiKey: 'your-openai-api-key'
  },
  listeningModel: {
    name: 'whisper-1',
    apiKey: 'your-openai-api-key'
  },
  speaker: 'alloy'  // Default voice
});

// Convert text to speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak('Hello, how can I help you?', {
  speaker: 'nova',  // Override default voice
  speed: 1.2  // Adjust speech speed
});

// Convert speech to text
const text = await voice.listen(audioStream, {
  filetype: 'mp3'
});
```

## Configuration

### Constructor Options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "OpenAIConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'tts-1', apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "listeningModel",
      type: "OpenAIConfig",
      description: "Configuration for speech-to-text recognition.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'whisper-1', apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "OpenAIVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice ID for speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'alloy'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### OpenAIConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "'tts-1' | 'tts-1-hd' | 'whisper-1'",
      description: "Model name. Use 'tts-1-hd' for higher quality audio.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "OpenAI API key. Falls back to OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using OpenAI's text-to-speech models.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: OpenAIVoiceId;
    speed?: number;
  }
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text or text stream to convert to speech.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "OpenAIVoiceId",
      description: "Voice ID to use for speech synthesis.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's speaker value",
    },
    {
      name: "options.speed",
      type: "number",
      description: "Speech speed multiplier.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1.0",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>` containing the generated audio.

### listen()

Transcribes audio using OpenAI's Whisper model.

```typescript
async listen(
  audioStream: NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    filetype?: 'mp3' | 'mp4' | 'mpeg' | 'mpga' | 'm4a' | 'wav' | 'webm';
  }
): Promise<string>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "audioStream",
      type: "NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Audio stream to transcribe.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.filetype",
      type: "string",
      description: "Audio format of the input stream.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'mp3'",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<string>` containing the transcribed text.

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available OpenAI voices.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: OpenAIVoiceId }>>
```

#### Returns

A `Promise<Array<{ voiceId: OpenAIVoiceId }>>` containing available voice IDs.

## Types

### OpenAIVoiceId

Available voices for speech synthesis:

```typescript
type OpenAIVoiceId =
  | 'alloy'    // Neutral, versatile voice
  | 'echo'     // Balanced, clear voice
  | 'fable'    // British-accented voice
  | 'onyx'     // Deep, authoritative voice
  | 'nova'     // Warm, engaging voice
  | 'shimmer'  // Clear, energetic voice
  | 'ash'      // Mature, refined voice
  | 'coral'    // Expressive, dynamic voice
  | 'sage';    // Gentle, measured voice
```

### OpenAIModel

Available models for speech synthesis and recognition:

```typescript
type OpenAIModel =
  | 'tts-1'     // Standard quality speech synthesis
  | 'tts-1-hd'  // High-quality speech synthesis
  | 'whisper-1'; // Speech recognition
```

## Notes

- API keys can be provided via constructor options or the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- The `tts-1-hd` model provides higher quality audio but may have slower processing times
- Speech recognition supports multiple audio formats including mp3, wav, and webm

## Related

- [Voice API Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [Google Voice Reference](/reference/voice/google.mdx)
