docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/speechify.mdx, before:

# Speechify Voice Reference

The Speechify voice implementation in Mastra provides text-to-speech capabilities using Speechify's API.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { SpeechifyVoice } from "@mastra/voice-speechify";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses SPEECHIFY_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new SpeechifyVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new SpeechifyVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'simba-english',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key'
  },
  speaker: 'george'  // Default voice
});

// Convert text to speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!", {
  speaker: 'henry',  // Override default voice
});
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "SpeechifyConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'simba-english', apiKey: process.env.SPEECHIFY_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "SpeechifyVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice ID to use for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'george'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### SpeechifyConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "VoiceModelName",
      description: "The Speechify model to use",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'simba-english'",
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Speechify API key. Falls back to SPEECHIFY_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: string;
  } & Omit<AudioStreamRequest, 'voiceId' | 'input'>
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker for this request",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's speaker value",
    },
    {
      name: "options.model",
      type: "VoiceModelName",
      description: "Override the default model for this request",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's model value",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>` containing the generated audio.

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string; name: string; }>>
```

#### Returns

Returns an array of voice information objects containing the voice ID and name.

### listen()

This method is not supported by Speechify and will throw an error. Speechify does not provide speech-to-text functionality.

## Available Voices

Use the `getSpeakers()` method to get a complete list of available voices.

## Notes

- Speechify requires an API key for authentication
- The default model is 'simba-english'
- Speech-to-text functionality is not supported
- Additional audio stream options can be passed through the speak() method's options parameter

## Related

- [Voice API Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [OpenAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/openai.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [PlayAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/playai.mdx)

Commit message:

add meta file and update docs with title and description

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/voice/speechify.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: Speechify Voice | Voice Providers | Mastra Docs"
description: "Documentation for the Speechify voice implementation, providing text-to-speech capabilities."
---

# Speechify Voice Reference

The Speechify voice implementation in Mastra provides text-to-speech capabilities using Speechify's API.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { SpeechifyVoice } from "@mastra/voice-speechify";

// Initialize with default configuration (uses SPEECHIFY_API_KEY environment variable)
const voice = new SpeechifyVoice();

// Initialize with custom configuration
const voice = new SpeechifyVoice({
  speechModel: {
    name: 'simba-english',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key'
  },
  speaker: 'george'  // Default voice
});

// Convert text to speech
const audioStream = await voice.speak("Hello, world!", {
  speaker: 'henry',  // Override default voice
});
```

## Constructor Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "speechModel",
      type: "SpeechifyConfig",
      description: "Configuration for text-to-speech functionality",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{ name: 'simba-english', apiKey: process.env.SPEECHIFY_API_KEY }",
    },
    {
      name: "speaker",
      type: "SpeechifyVoiceId",
      description: "Default voice ID to use for speech synthesis",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'george'",
    },
  ]}
/>

### SpeechifyConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "VoiceModelName",
      description: "The Speechify model to use",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "'simba-english'",
    },
    {
      name: "apiKey",
      type: "string",
      description: "Speechify API key. Falls back to SPEECHIFY_API_KEY environment variable",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### speak()

Converts text to speech using the configured speech model and voice.

```typescript
async speak(
  input: string | NodeJS.ReadableStream,
  options?: {
    speaker?: string;
  } & Omit<AudioStreamRequest, 'voiceId' | 'input'>
): Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>
```

#### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "input",
      type: "string | NodeJS.ReadableStream",
      description: "Text to convert to speech. If a stream is provided, it will be converted to text first.",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options.speaker",
      type: "string",
      description: "Override the default speaker for this request",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's speaker value",
    },
    {
      name: "options.model",
      type: "VoiceModelName",
      description: "Override the default model for this request",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Constructor's model value",
    },
  ]}
/>

#### Returns

A `Promise<NodeJS.ReadableStream>` containing the generated audio.

### getSpeakers()

Returns a list of available voice options.

```typescript
async getSpeakers(): Promise<Array<{ voiceId: string; name: string; }>>
```

#### Returns

Returns an array of voice information objects containing the voice ID and name.

### listen()

This method is not supported by Speechify and will throw an error. Speechify does not provide speech-to-text functionality.

## Available Voices

Use the `getSpeakers()` method to get a complete list of available voices.

## Notes

- Speechify requires an API key for authentication
- The default model is 'simba-english'
- Speech-to-text functionality is not supported
- Additional audio stream options can be passed through the speak() method's options parameter

## Related

- [Voice API Reference](/reference/voice/voice.mdx)
- [OpenAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/openai.mdx)
- [Deepgram Voice Reference](/reference/voice/deepgram.mdx)
- [PlayAI Voice Reference](/reference/voice/playai.mdx)
