docs/src/pages/docs/workflows/control-flow.mdx, before:

---
title: "Branching, Merging, Conditions | Workflows | Mastra Docs"
description: "Control flow in Mastra workflows allows you to manage branching, merging, and conditions to construct workflows that meet your logic requirements."
---

# Control Flow in Workflows: Branching, Merging, and Conditions

When you create a multi-step process, you may need to run steps in parallel, chain them sequentially, or follow different paths based on outcomes. This page describes how you can manage branching, merging, and conditions to construct workflows that meet your logic requirements. The code snippets show the key patterns for structuring complex control flow.

## Parallel Execution

You can run multiple steps at the same time if they don't depend on each other. This approach can speed up your workflow when steps perform independent tasks. The code below shows how to add two steps in parallel:

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(fetchUserData).step(fetchOrderData);
```

See the [Parallel Steps](../../examples/workflows/parallel-steps.mdx) example for more details.

## Sequential Execution

Sometimes you need to run steps in strict order to ensure outputs from one step become inputs for the next. Use .then() to link dependent operations. The code below shows how to chain steps sequentially:

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(fetchOrderData).then(validateData).then(processOrder);
```

See the [Sequential Steps](../../examples/workflows/sequential-steps.mdx) example for more details.

## Branching and Merging Paths

When different outcomes require different paths, branching is helpful. You can also merge paths later once they complete. The code below shows how to branch after stepA and later converge on stepF:

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(stepA)
    .then(stepB)
    .then(stepD)
  .after(stepA)
    .step(stepC)
    .then(stepE)
  .after(stepD)
    .step(stepF);
    .step(stepE)
```

In this example:

- stepA leads to stepB, then to stepD.
- Separately, stepA also triggers stepC, which in turn leads to stepE.
- Separately, stepD also triggers stepF and stepE in parallel.

See the [Branching Paths](../../examples/workflows/branching-paths.mdx) example for more details.

## Merging Multiple Branches

Sometimes you need a step to execute only after multiple other steps have completed. Mastra provides a compound `.after([])` syntax that allows you to specify multiple dependencies for a step.

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(fetchUserData)
  .then(validateUserData)
  .step(fetchProductData)
  .then(validateProductData)
  // This step will only run after BOTH validateUserData AND validateProductData have completed
  .after([validateUserData, validateProductData])
  .step(processOrder)
```

In this example:
- `fetchUserData` and `fetchProductData` run in parallel branches
- Each branch has its own validation step
- The `processOrder` step only executes after both validation steps have completed successfully

This pattern is particularly useful for:
- Joining parallel execution paths
- Implementing synchronization points in your workflow
- Ensuring all required data is available before proceeding

You can also create complex dependency patterns by combining multiple `.after([])` calls:

```typescript
myWorkflow
  // First branch
  .step(stepA)
  .then(stepB)
  .then(stepC)

  // Second branch
  .step(stepD)
  .then(stepE)

  // Third branch
  .step(stepF)
  .then(stepG)

  // This step depends on the completion of multiple branches
  .after([stepC, stepE, stepG])
  .step(finalStep)
```

## Cyclical Dependencies

You can loop back to earlier steps based on conditions, allowing you to repeat tasks until certain results are achieved. The code below shows a workflow that repeats fetchData when a status is "retry":

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(fetchData)
  .then(processData)
  .after(processData)
  .step(finalizeData, {
    when: { "processData.status": "success" },
  })
  .step(fetchData, {
    when: { "processData.status": "retry" },
  });
```

If processData returns "success," finalizeData runs. If it returns "retry," the workflow loops back to fetchData.

See the [Cyclical Dependencies](../../examples/workflows/cyclical-dependencies.mdx) example for more details.

## Loop Control with `until` and `while`

Mastra provides dedicated methods for creating loops in workflows: `until` and `while`. These methods offer a more intuitive way to implement repetitive tasks compared to manual cyclical dependencies.

### Using `until`

The `until` method repeats a step until a specified condition becomes true. It takes two arguments:
1. A condition that determines when to stop looping
2. The step to repeat

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .until(async ({ context }) => {
    // Stop when the value reaches or exceeds 10
    const result = context.getStepResult<{ value: number }>('increment');
    return (result?.value ?? 0) >= 10;
  }, incrementStep)
  .then(finalStep);
```

You can also use a reference-based condition:

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .until(
    {
      ref: { step: incrementStep, path: 'value' },
      query: { $gte: 10 },
    },
    incrementStep
  )
  .then(finalStep);
```

### Using `while`

The `while` method repeats a step as long as a specified condition remains true. It takes the same arguments as `until`:
1. A condition that determines when to continue looping
2. The step to repeat

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .while(async ({ context }) => {
    // Continue as long as the value is less than 10
    const result = context.getStepResult<{ value: number }>('increment');
    return (result?.value ?? 0) < 10;
  }, incrementStep)
  .then(finalStep);
```

You can also use a reference-based condition:

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .while(
    {
      ref: { step: incrementStep, path: 'value' },
      query: { $lt: 10 },
    },
    incrementStep
  )
  .then(finalStep);
```

### Comparison Operators

When using reference-based conditions, you can use these comparison operators:

| Operator | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `$eq`    | Equal to    |
| `$ne`    | Not equal to |
| `$gt`    | Greater than |
| `$gte`   | Greater than or equal to |
| `$lt`    | Less than |
| `$lte`   | Less than or equal to |

## Conditions

Use the when property to control whether a step runs based on data from previous steps. Below are three ways to specify conditions.

### Option 1: Function

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: async ({ context }) => {
      const fetchData = context?.getStepResult<{ status: string }>("fetchData");
      return fetchData?.status === "success";
    },
  },
);
```

### Option 2: Query Object

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: {
      ref: {
        step: {
          id: "fetchData",
        },
        path: "status",
      },
      query: { $eq: "success" },
    },
  },
);
```

### Option 3: Simple Path Comparison

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: {
      "fetchData.status": "success",
    },
  },
);
```

## Accessing Previous Step Results

Steps access data from previous steps through the `context` object. The context contains a record of all step results and their payloads.

### Using getStepResult

`getStepResult` retrieves a step's output with type safety:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
workflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processOrder",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      const userData = context.getStepResult<{ userId: string }>("fetchUser");
      return {
        userId: userData?.userId,
        status: "processing"
      };
    },
  })
);
```

### Using Path Notation

Path notation accesses step results through the machine context. For example, to access the status of the `processOrder` step:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
workflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "sendEmail",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      const orderStatus = context.steps.processOrder.output.status;
      console.log(orderStatus);
    },
  })
);
```

The context object maintains type information when used with TypeScript. Nested objects in step outputs can be accessed with either method.

Commit message:

Add data flow documentation (#2904)
https://linear.app/kepler-crm/issue/MASTRA-2378/document-new-type-magics

docs/src/pages/docs/workflows/control-flow.mdx, after:

---
title: "Branching, Merging, Conditions | Workflows | Mastra Docs"
description: "Control flow in Mastra workflows allows you to manage branching, merging, and conditions to construct workflows that meet your logic requirements."
---

# Control Flow in Workflows: Branching, Merging, and Conditions

When you create a multi-step process, you may need to run steps in parallel, chain them sequentially, or follow different paths based on outcomes. This page describes how you can manage branching, merging, and conditions to construct workflows that meet your logic requirements. The code snippets show the key patterns for structuring complex control flow.

## Parallel Execution

You can run multiple steps at the same time if they don't depend on each other. This approach can speed up your workflow when steps perform independent tasks. The code below shows how to add two steps in parallel:

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(fetchUserData).step(fetchOrderData);
```

See the [Parallel Steps](../../examples/workflows/parallel-steps.mdx) example for more details.

## Sequential Execution

Sometimes you need to run steps in strict order to ensure outputs from one step become inputs for the next. Use .then() to link dependent operations. The code below shows how to chain steps sequentially:

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(fetchOrderData).then(validateData).then(processOrder);
```

See the [Sequential Steps](../../examples/workflows/sequential-steps.mdx) example for more details.

## Branching and Merging Paths

When different outcomes require different paths, branching is helpful. You can also merge paths later once they complete. The code below shows how to branch after stepA and later converge on stepF:

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(stepA)
    .then(stepB)
    .then(stepD)
  .after(stepA)
    .step(stepC)
    .then(stepE)
  .after(stepD)
    .step(stepF);
    .step(stepE)
```

In this example:

- stepA leads to stepB, then to stepD.
- Separately, stepA also triggers stepC, which in turn leads to stepE.
- Separately, stepD also triggers stepF and stepE in parallel.

See the [Branching Paths](../../examples/workflows/branching-paths.mdx) example for more details.

## Merging Multiple Branches

Sometimes you need a step to execute only after multiple other steps have completed. Mastra provides a compound `.after([])` syntax that allows you to specify multiple dependencies for a step.

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(fetchUserData)
  .then(validateUserData)
  .step(fetchProductData)
  .then(validateProductData)
  // This step will only run after BOTH validateUserData AND validateProductData have completed
  .after([validateUserData, validateProductData])
  .step(processOrder)
```

In this example:
- `fetchUserData` and `fetchProductData` run in parallel branches
- Each branch has its own validation step
- The `processOrder` step only executes after both validation steps have completed successfully

This pattern is particularly useful for:
- Joining parallel execution paths
- Implementing synchronization points in your workflow
- Ensuring all required data is available before proceeding

You can also create complex dependency patterns by combining multiple `.after([])` calls:

```typescript
myWorkflow
  // First branch
  .step(stepA)
  .then(stepB)
  .then(stepC)

  // Second branch
  .step(stepD)
  .then(stepE)

  // Third branch
  .step(stepF)
  .then(stepG)

  // This step depends on the completion of multiple branches
  .after([stepC, stepE, stepG])
  .step(finalStep)
```

## Cyclical Dependencies and Loops

Workflows often need to repeat steps until certain conditions are met. Mastra provides two powerful methods for creating loops: `until` and `while`. These methods offer an intuitive way to implement repetitive tasks.

### Using Manual Cyclical Dependencies (Legacy Approach)

In earlier versions, you could create loops by manually defining cyclical dependencies with conditions:

```typescript
myWorkflow
  .step(fetchData)
  .then(processData)
  .after(processData)
  .step(finalizeData, {
    when: { "processData.status": "success" },
  })
  .step(fetchData, {
    when: { "processData.status": "retry" },
  });
```

While this approach still works, the newer `until` and `while` methods provide a cleaner and more maintainable way to create loops.

### Using `until` for Condition-Based Loops

The `until` method repeats a step until a specified condition becomes true. It takes two arguments:
1. A condition that determines when to stop looping
2. The step to repeat

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .until(async ({ context }) => {
    // Stop when the value reaches or exceeds 10
    const result = context.getStepResult(incrementStep);
    return (result?.value ?? 0) >= 10;
  }, incrementStep)
  .then(finalStep);
```

You can also use a reference-based condition:

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .until(
    {
      ref: { step: incrementStep, path: 'value' },
      query: { $gte: 10 },
    },
    incrementStep
  )
  .then(finalStep);
```

### Using `while` for Condition-Based Loops

The `while` method repeats a step as long as a specified condition remains true. It takes the same arguments as `until`:
1. A condition that determines when to continue looping
2. The step to repeat

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .while(async ({ context }) => {
    // Continue as long as the value is less than 10
    const result = context.getStepResult(incrementStep);
    return (result?.value ?? 0) < 10;
  }, incrementStep)
  .then(finalStep);
```

You can also use a reference-based condition:

```typescript
workflow
  .step(incrementStep)
  .while(
    {
      ref: { step: incrementStep, path: 'value' },
      query: { $lt: 10 },
    },
    incrementStep
  )
  .then(finalStep);
```

### Comparison Operators for Reference Conditions

When using reference-based conditions, you can use these comparison operators:

| Operator | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `$eq`    | Equal to    |
| `$ne`    | Not equal to |
| `$gt`    | Greater than |
| `$gte`   | Greater than or equal to |
| `$lt`    | Less than |
| `$lte`   | Less than or equal to |

See the [Loop Control](../../examples/workflows/loop-control.mdx) example for more details.

## Conditions

Use the when property to control whether a step runs based on data from previous steps. Below are three ways to specify conditions.

### Option 1: Function

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: async ({ context }) => {
      const fetchData = context?.getStepResult<{ status: string }>("fetchData");
      return fetchData?.status === "success";
    },
  },
);
```

### Option 2: Query Object

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: {
      ref: {
        step: {
          id: "fetchData",
        },
        path: "status",
      },
      query: { $eq: "success" },
    },
  },
);
```

### Option 3: Simple Path Comparison

```typescript
myWorkflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processData",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      // Action logic
    },
  }),
  {
    when: {
      "fetchData.status": "success",
    },
  },
);
```

## Accessing Previous Step Results

Steps access data from previous steps through the `context` object. The context contains a record of all step results and their payloads.

### Using getStepResult

`getStepResult` retrieves a step's output with type safety:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
workflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "processOrder",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      const userData = context.getStepResult<{ userId: string }>("fetchUser");
      return {
        userId: userData?.userId,
        status: "processing"
      };
    },
  })
);
```

### Using Path Notation

Path notation accesses step results through the machine context. For example, to access the status of the `processOrder` step:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
workflow.step(
  new Step({
    id: "sendEmail",
    execute: async ({ context }) => {
      const orderStatus = context.steps.processOrder.output.status;
      console.log(orderStatus);
    },
  })
);
```

The context object maintains type information when used with TypeScript. Nested objects in step outputs can be accessed with either method.
