docs/src/pages/docs/workflows/suspend-and-resume.mdx, before:

---
title: "Suspend & Resume Workflows | Human-in-the-Loop | Mastra Docs"
description: "Suspend and resume in Mastra workflows allows you to pause execution while waiting for external input or resources."
---

# Suspend and Resume in Workflows

Complex workflows often need to pause execution while waiting for external input or resources.

Mastra's suspend and resume features let you pause workflow execution at any step, persist the workflow state, and continue when ready.

## When to Use Suspend/Resume

Common scenarios for suspending workflows include:

- Waiting for human approval or input
- Pausing until external API resources become available
- Collecting additional data needed for later steps
- Rate limiting or throttling expensive operations

## Basic Suspend Example

Here's a simple workflow that suspends when a value is too low and resumes when given a higher value:

```typescript
const stepTwo = new Step({
  id: "stepTwo",
  outputSchema: z.object({
    incrementedValue: z.number(),
  }),
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    if (context.steps.stepOne.status !== "success") {
      return { incrementedValue: 0 };
    }

    const currentValue = context.steps.stepOne.output.doubledValue;

    if (currentValue < 100) {
      await suspend();
      return { incrementedValue: 0 };
    }
    return { incrementedValue: currentValue + 1 };
  },
});
```

## Async/Await Based Flow

The suspend and resume mechanism in Mastra uses an async/await pattern that makes it intuitive to implement complex workflows with suspension points. The code structure naturally reflects the execution flow.

### How It Works

1. A step's execution function receives a `suspend` function in its parameters
2. When called with `await suspend()`, the workflow pauses at that point
3. The workflow state is persisted
4. Later, the workflow can be resumed by calling `workflow.resume()` with the appropriate parameters
5. Execution continues from the point after the `suspend()` call

### Example with Multiple Suspension Points

Here's an example of a workflow with multiple steps that can suspend:

```typescript
// Define steps with suspend capability
const promptAgentStep = new Step({
  id: 'promptAgent',
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    // Some condition that determines if we need to suspend
    if (needHumanInput) {
      // Optionally pass payload data that will be stored with suspended state
      await suspend({ requestReason: 'Need human input for prompt' });
      // Code after suspend() will execute when the step is resumed
      return { modelOutput: context.userInput };
    }
    return { modelOutput: 'AI generated output' };
  },
  outputSchema: z.object({ modelOutput: z.string() }),
});

const improveResponseStep = new Step({
  id: 'improveResponse',
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    // Another condition for suspension
    if (needFurtherRefinement) {
      await suspend();
      return { improvedOutput: context.refinedOutput };
    }
    return { improvedOutput: 'Improved output' };
  },
  outputSchema: z.object({ improvedOutput: z.string() }),
});

// Build the workflow
const workflow = new Workflow({
  name: 'multi-suspend-workflow',
  triggerSchema: z.object({ input: z.string() }),
});

workflow
  .step(getUserInput)
  .then(promptAgentStep)
  .then(evaluateTone)
  .then(improveResponseStep)
  .then(evaluateImproved)
  .commit();
```

### Starting and Resuming the Workflow

```typescript
// Get the workflow and create a run
const wf = mastra.getWorkflow('multi-suspend-workflow');
const run = wf.createRun();

// Start the workflow
const initialResult = await run.start({ triggerData: { input: 'initial input' } });

let promptAgentStepResult = initialResult.activePaths.get('promptAgent');
let promptAgentResumeResult = undefined;

// Check if a step is suspended
if (promptAgentStepResult?.status === 'suspended') {
  console.log('Workflow suspended at promptAgent step');

  // Resume the workflow with new context
  const resumeResult = await wf.resume({
    runId: run.runId,
    stepId: 'promptAgent',
    context: { userInput: 'Human provided input' }
  });

  promptAgentResumeResult = resumeResult;
}

const improveResponseStepResult = promptAgentResumeResult?.activePaths.get('improveResponse');

if (improveResponseStepResult?.status === 'suspended') {
  console.log('Workflow suspended at improveResponse step');

  // Resume again with different context
  const finalResult = await wf.resume({
    runId: run.runId,
    stepId: 'improveResponse',
    context: { refinedOutput: 'Human refined output' }
  });

  console.log('Workflow completed:', finalResult?.results);
}
```

### Key Points About Suspend and Resume

- The `suspend()` function can optionally take a payload object that will be stored with the suspended state
- Code after the `await suspend()` call will not execute until the step is resumed
- When a step is suspended, its status becomes `'suspended'` in the workflow results
- When resumed, the step's status changes from `'suspended'` to `'success'` once completed
- The `resume()` method requires the `runId` and `stepId` to identify which suspended step to resume
- You can provide new context data when resuming that will be merged with existing step results

## Watching and Resuming

To handle suspended workflows, use the `watch` method to monitor workflow status and `resume` to continue execution:

```typescript
import { mastra } from "./index";

// Get the workflow
const myWorkflow = mastra.getWorkflow('myWorkflow');
const { runId, start } = myWorkflow.createRun();

// Start watching the workflow before executing it
myWorkflow.watch(async ({ context, activePaths }) => {
  for (const _path of activePaths) {
    const stepTwoStatus = context.steps?.stepTwo?.status;
    if (stepTwoStatus === 'suspended') {
      console.log("Workflow suspended, resuming with new value");

      // Resume the workflow with new context
      await myWorkflow.resume({
        runId,
        stepId: 'stepTwo',
        context: { secondValue: 100 },
      });
    }
  }
})

// Start the workflow execution
await start({ triggerData: { inputValue: 45 } });
```

## Related Resources

- See the [Suspend and Resume Example](../../examples/workflows/suspend-and-resume.mdx) for a complete working example
- Check the [Step Class Reference](../reference/workflows/step-class.mdx) for suspend/resume API details
- Review [Workflow Observability](../reference/observability/otel-config.mdx) for monitoring suspended workflows

Commit message:

Update suspend/resume documentation and examples (#2922)
https://linear.app/kepler-crm/issue/MASTRA-2192/clarification-on-suspend-and-managing-context-state-across-sessions

https://linear.app/kepler-crm/issue/MASTRA-2380/document-new-resumedata-access-from-context-instead-of-from-step

Closes MASTRA-2380

docs/src/pages/docs/workflows/suspend-and-resume.mdx, after:

---
title: "Suspend & Resume Workflows | Human-in-the-Loop | Mastra Docs"
description: "Suspend and resume in Mastra workflows allows you to pause execution while waiting for external input or resources."
---

# Suspend and Resume in Workflows

Complex workflows often need to pause execution while waiting for external input or resources.

Mastra's suspend and resume features let you pause workflow execution at any step, persist the workflow snapshot to storage, and resume execution from the saved snapshot when ready.
This entire process is automatically managed by Mastra. No config needed, or manual step required from the user.

Storing the workflow snapshot to storage (libsql by default) means that the workflow state is permanently preserved across sessions even if the workflow is suspended for a long time.

## When to Use Suspend/Resume

Common scenarios for suspending workflows include:

- Waiting for human approval or input
- Pausing until external API resources become available
- Collecting additional data needed for later steps
- Rate limiting or throttling expensive operations

## Basic Suspend Example

Here's a simple workflow that suspends when a value is too low and resumes when given a higher value:

```typescript
const stepTwo = new Step({
  id: "stepTwo",
  outputSchema: z.object({
    incrementedValue: z.number(),
  }),
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    if (context.steps.stepOne.status !== "success") {
      return { incrementedValue: 0 };
    }

    const currentValue = context.steps.stepOne.output.doubledValue;

    if (currentValue < 100) {
      await suspend();
      return { incrementedValue: 0 };
    }
    return { incrementedValue: currentValue + 1 };
  },
});
```

## Async/Await Based Flow

The suspend and resume mechanism in Mastra uses an async/await pattern that makes it intuitive to implement complex workflows with suspension points. The code structure naturally reflects the execution flow.

### How It Works

1. A step's execution function receives a `suspend` function in its parameters
2. When called with `await suspend()`, the workflow pauses at that point
3. The workflow state is persisted
4. Later, the workflow can be resumed by calling `workflow.resume()` with the appropriate parameters
5. Execution continues from the point after the `suspend()` call

### Example with Multiple Suspension Points

Here's an example of a workflow with multiple steps that can suspend:

```typescript
// Define steps with suspend capability
const promptAgentStep = new Step({
  id: 'promptAgent',
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    // Some condition that determines if we need to suspend
    if (needHumanInput) {
      // Optionally pass payload data that will be stored with suspended state
      await suspend({ requestReason: 'Need human input for prompt' });
      // Code after suspend() will execute when the step is resumed
      return { modelOutput: context.userInput };
    }
    return { modelOutput: 'AI generated output' };
  },
  outputSchema: z.object({ modelOutput: z.string() }),
});

const improveResponseStep = new Step({
  id: 'improveResponse',
  execute: async ({ context, suspend }) => {
    // Another condition for suspension
    if (needFurtherRefinement) {
      await suspend();
      return { improvedOutput: context.refinedOutput };
    }
    return { improvedOutput: 'Improved output' };
  },
  outputSchema: z.object({ improvedOutput: z.string() }),
});

// Build the workflow
const workflow = new Workflow({
  name: 'multi-suspend-workflow',
  triggerSchema: z.object({ input: z.string() }),
});

workflow
  .step(getUserInput)
  .then(promptAgentStep)
  .then(evaluateTone)
  .then(improveResponseStep)
  .then(evaluateImproved)
  .commit();
```

### Starting and Resuming the Workflow

```typescript
// Get the workflow and create a run
const wf = mastra.getWorkflow('multi-suspend-workflow');
const run = wf.createRun();

// Start the workflow
const initialResult = await run.start({ triggerData: { input: 'initial input' } });

let promptAgentStepResult = initialResult.activePaths.get('promptAgent');
let promptAgentResumeResult = undefined;

// Check if a step is suspended
if (promptAgentStepResult?.status === 'suspended') {
  console.log('Workflow suspended at promptAgent step');

  // Resume the workflow with new context
  const resumeResult = await wf.resume({
    runId: run.runId,
    stepId: 'promptAgent',
    context: { userInput: 'Human provided input' }
  });

  promptAgentResumeResult = resumeResult;
}

const improveResponseStepResult = promptAgentResumeResult?.activePaths.get('improveResponse');

if (improveResponseStepResult?.status === 'suspended') {
  console.log('Workflow suspended at improveResponse step');

  // Resume again with different context
  const finalResult = await wf.resume({
    runId: run.runId,
    stepId: 'improveResponse',
    context: { refinedOutput: 'Human refined output' }
  });

  console.log('Workflow completed:', finalResult?.results);
}
```

### Key Points About Suspend and Resume

- The `suspend()` function can optionally take a payload object that will be stored with the suspended state
- Code after the `await suspend()` call will not execute until the step is resumed
- When a step is suspended, its status becomes `'suspended'` in the workflow results
- When resumed, the step's status changes from `'suspended'` to `'success'` once completed
- The `resume()` method requires the `runId` and `stepId` to identify which suspended step to resume
- You can provide new context data when resuming that will be merged with existing step results

## Watching and Resuming

To handle suspended workflows, use the `watch` method to monitor workflow status and `resume` to continue execution:

```typescript
import { mastra } from "./index";

// Get the workflow
const myWorkflow = mastra.getWorkflow('myWorkflow');
const { runId, start } = myWorkflow.createRun();

// Start watching the workflow before executing it
myWorkflow.watch(async ({ context, activePaths }) => {
  for (const _path of activePaths) {
    const stepTwoStatus = context.steps?.stepTwo?.status;
    if (stepTwoStatus === 'suspended') {
      console.log("Workflow suspended, resuming with new value");

      // Resume the workflow with new context
      await myWorkflow.resume({
        runId,
        stepId: 'stepTwo',
        context: { secondValue: 100 },
      });
    }
  }
})

// Start the workflow execution
await start({ triggerData: { inputValue: 45 } });
```

## Related Resources

- See the [Suspend and Resume Example](../../examples/workflows/suspend-and-resume.mdx) for a complete working example
- Check the [Step Class Reference](../reference/workflows/step-class.mdx) for suspend/resume API details
- Review [Workflow Observability](../reference/observability/otel-config.mdx) for monitoring suspended workflows
