docs/src/pages/docs/reference/memory/Memory.mdx, before:

# Memory Class Reference

The `Memory` class provides a robust system for managing conversation history and thread-based message storage in Mastra. It enables persistent storage of conversations, semantic search capabilities, and efficient message retrieval. By default, it uses LibSQL for storage and vector search, and FastEmbed for embeddings.

## Basic Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";

const agent = new Agent({
  memory: new Memory(),
  ...otherOptions,
});
```

## Custom Configuration

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { LibSQLStore } from "@mastra/core/storage/libsql";
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";

const memory = new Memory({
  // Custom storage configuration
  storage: new LibSQLStore({
    url: "file:memory.db",
  }),

  // Custom vector database for semantic search
  vector: new LibSQLVector({
    url: "file:vector.db",
  }),

  // Memory configuration options
  options: {
    // Number of recent messages to include
    lastMessages: 20,

    // Semantic search configuration
    semanticRecall: {
      topK: 3, // Number of similar messages to retrieve
      messageRange: {
        // Messages to include around each result
        before: 2,
        after: 1,
      },
    },

    // Working memory configuration
    workingMemory: {
      enabled: true,
      template: "<user><first_name></first_name><last_name></last_name></user>",
    },
  },
});

const agent = new Agent({
  memory,
  ...otherOptions,
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "storage",
      type: "MastraStorage",
      description: "Storage implementation for persisting memory data",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "vector",
      type: "MastraVector",
      description: "Vector store for semantic search capabilities",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "embedder",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description:
        "Embedder instance for vector embeddings. Uses FastEmbed (bge-small-en-v1.5) by default",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "MemoryConfig",
      description: "General memory configuration options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "lastMessages",
      type: "number | false",
      description:
        "Number of most recent messages to retrieve. Set to false to disable.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "40",
    },
    {
      name: "semanticRecall",
      type: "boolean | SemanticRecallConfig",
      description:
        "Enable semantic search in message history. Automatically enabled when vector store is provided.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "false (true if vector store provided)",
    },
    {
      name: "topK",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of similar messages to retrieve when using semantic search",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "2",
    },
    {
      name: "messageRange",
      type: "number | { before: number; after: number }",
      description:
        "Range of messages to include around semantic search results",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "2",
    },
    {
      name: "workingMemory",
      type: "{ enabled: boolean; template: string }",
      description:
        "Configuration for working memory feature that allows persistent storage of user information across conversations",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue:
        "{ enabled: false, template: '<user><first_name></first_name><last_name></last_name>...</user>' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

### Working Memory

The working memory feature allows agents to maintain persistent information across conversations. When enabled, the Memory class will automatically manage XML-based working memory updates through the conversation stream.

If no template is provided, the Memory class uses a default template that includes fields for user details, preferences, goals, and other contextual information. See the [Agent Memory Guide](/docs/agents/agent-memory#working-memory) for detailed usage examples and best practices.

### embedder

By default, Memory uses FastEmbed with the `bge-small-en-v1.5` model, which provides a good balance of performance and model size (~130MB). You only need to specify an embedder if you want to use a different model or provider.

## Additional Notes

### Vector Search Configuration

When using vector search capabilities with custom configuration, ensure you configure both the vector store and appropriate search options. Here's an example:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { LibSQLStore } from "@mastra/core/storage/libsql";
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";

const memory = new Memory({
  storage: new LibSQLStore({
    url: ":memory:",
  }),
  vector: new LibSQLVector({
    url: ":memory:",
  }),
  options: {
    semanticRecall: {
      topK: 5,
      messageRange: 2,
    },
  },
});
```

### Related

- [createThread](/docs/reference/memory/createThread.mdx)
- [query](/docs/reference/memory/query.mdx)

Commit message:

feat(core, memory): Add tool-call option for saving working memory (#2664)
Working memory currently only supports saving memory updates via text
streaming. This works but only supports `textStream` and not
`toDataStream`.
I initially looked at supporting `toDataStream` but found it's very
complex and resource intensive since it requires converting the stream
to/from text repeatedly.

So this PR adds a working memory option which causes the agent to update
working memory via tool calls:

```ts
new Memory({
	options: {
        workingMemory: { use: "tool-call" }
    }
})
```

Now the agent will save memory via tool calls instead of writing it to
the text response

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/memory/Memory.mdx, after:

# Memory Class Reference

The `Memory` class provides a robust system for managing conversation history and thread-based message storage in Mastra. It enables persistent storage of conversations, semantic search capabilities, and efficient message retrieval. By default, it uses LibSQL for storage and vector search, and FastEmbed for embeddings.

## Basic Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";

const agent = new Agent({
  memory: new Memory(),
  ...otherOptions,
});
```

## Custom Configuration

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { LibSQLStore } from "@mastra/core/storage/libsql";
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";

const memory = new Memory({
  // Custom storage configuration
  storage: new LibSQLStore({
    url: "file:memory.db",
  }),

  // Custom vector database for semantic search
  vector: new LibSQLVector({
    url: "file:vector.db",
  }),

  // Memory configuration options
  options: {
    // Number of recent messages to include
    lastMessages: 20,

    // Semantic search configuration
    semanticRecall: {
      topK: 3, // Number of similar messages to retrieve
      messageRange: {
        // Messages to include around each result
        before: 2,
        after: 1,
      },
    },

    // Working memory configuration
    workingMemory: {
      enabled: true,
      template: "<user><first_name></first_name><last_name></last_name></user>",
    },
  },
});

const agent = new Agent({
  memory,
  ...otherOptions,
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "storage",
      type: "MastraStorage",
      description: "Storage implementation for persisting memory data",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "vector",
      type: "MastraVector",
      description: "Vector store for semantic search capabilities",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "embedder",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description:
        "Embedder instance for vector embeddings. Uses FastEmbed (bge-small-en-v1.5) by default",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "MemoryConfig",
      description: "General memory configuration options",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### options

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "lastMessages",
      type: "number | false",
      description:
        "Number of most recent messages to retrieve. Set to false to disable.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "40",
    },
    {
      name: "semanticRecall",
      type: "boolean | SemanticRecallConfig",
      description:
        "Enable semantic search in message history. Automatically enabled when vector store is provided.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "false (true if vector store provided)",
    },
    {
      name: "topK",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of similar messages to retrieve when using semantic search",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "2",
    },
    {
      name: "messageRange",
      type: "number | { before: number; after: number }",
      description:
        "Range of messages to include around semantic search results",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "2",
    },
    {
      name: "workingMemory",
      type: "{ enabled: boolean; template?: string; use?: 'text-stream' | 'tool-call' }",
      description:
        "Configuration for working memory feature that allows persistent storage of user information across conversations. The 'use' setting determines how working memory updates are handled - either through text stream tags or tool calls.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue:
        "{ enabled: false, template: '<user><first_name></first_name><last_name></last_name>...</user>', use: 'text-stream' }",
    },
  ]}
/>

### Working Memory

The working memory feature allows agents to maintain persistent information across conversations. When enabled, the Memory class will automatically manage XML-based working memory updates through either text stream tags or tool calls.

There are two modes for handling working memory updates:

1. **text-stream** (default): The agent includes working memory updates directly in its responses using XML-like tags (`<working_memory>...</working_memory>`). These tags are automatically processed and stripped from the visible output.

2. **tool-call**: The agent uses a dedicated tool to update working memory. This mode should be used when working with `toDataStream()` as text-stream mode is not compatible with data streaming. Additionally, this mode provides more explicit control over memory updates and may be preferred when working with agents that are better at using tools than managing text tags.

Example configuration:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
const memory = new Memory({
  options: {
    workingMemory: {
      enabled: true,
      template: '<user><first_name></first_name><last_name></last_name></user>',
      use: 'tool-call', // or 'text-stream'
    },
  },
});
```

If no template is provided, the Memory class uses a default template that includes fields for user details, preferences, goals, and other contextual information. See the [Agent Memory Guide](/docs/agents/agent-memory#working-memory) for detailed usage examples and best practices.

### embedder

By default, Memory uses FastEmbed with the `bge-small-en-v1.5` model, which provides a good balance of performance and model size (~130MB). You only need to specify an embedder if you want to use a different model or provider.

## Additional Notes

### Vector Search Configuration

When using vector search capabilities with custom configuration, ensure you configure both the vector store and appropriate search options. Here's an example:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";
import { LibSQLStore } from "@mastra/core/storage/libsql";
import { LibSQLVector } from "@mastra/core/vector/libsql";

const memory = new Memory({
  storage: new LibSQLStore({
    url: ":memory:",
  }),
  vector: new LibSQLVector({
    url: ":memory:",
  }),
  options: {
    semanticRecall: {
      topK: 5,
      messageRange: 2,
    },
  },
});
```

### Related

- [createThread](/docs/reference/memory/createThread.mdx)
- [query](/docs/reference/memory/query.mdx)
