docs/src/pages/docs/reference/memory/query.mdx, before:

# query

Retrieves messages from a specific thread, with support for pagination and filtering options.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";

const memory = new Memory({
  /* config */
});

// Get last 50 messages
const { messages, uiMessages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    last: 50,
  },
});

// Get messages with context around specific messages
const { messages: contextMessages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    include: [
      {
        id: "msg-123", // Get just this message (no context)
      },
      {
        id: "msg-456", // Get this message with custom context
        withPreviousMessages: 3, // 3 messages before
        withNextMessages: 1, // 1 message after
      },
    ],
  },
});

// Semantic search in messages
const { messages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    vectorSearchString: "What was discussed about deployment?",
  },
  threadConfig: {
    historySearch: true,
  },
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "threadId",
      type: "string",
      description:
        "The unique identifier of the thread to retrieve messages from",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "selectBy",
      type: "object",
      description: "Options for filtering messages",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "threadConfig",
      type: "MemoryConfig",
      description: "Configuration options for message retrieval",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### selectBy

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorSearchString",
      type: "string",
      description: "Search string for finding semantically similar messages",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "last",
      type: "number | false",
      description:
        "Number of most recent messages to retrieve. Set to false to disable limit. Note: threadConfig.lastMessages (default: 40) will override this if smaller.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "40",
    },
    {
      name: "include",
      type: "array",
      description: "Array of message IDs to include with context",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### include

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "string",
      description: "ID of the message to include",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "withPreviousMessages",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of messages to include before this message. Defaults to 2 when using vector search, 0 otherwise.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "withNextMessages",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of messages to include after this message. Defaults to 2 when using vector search, 0 otherwise.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "messages",
      type: "CoreMessage[]",
      description: "Array of retrieved messages in their core format",
    },
    {
      name: "uiMessages",
      type: "AiMessage[]",
      description: "Array of messages formatted for UI display",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Additional Notes

The `query` function returns two different message formats:

- `messages`: Core message format used internally
- `uiMessages`: Formatted messages suitable for UI display, including proper threading of tool calls and results

### Related

- [Memory](/docs/reference/memory/Memory.mdx)

Commit message:

feat(core, memory): add ability to validate resourceId owns thread  (#2820)
Closes https://github.com/mastra-ai/mastra/issues/2708
```ts
try {
	const thread = await memory.query({ threadId, resourceId })
} catch (e) {
	logger.error(`Thread ${threadId} is not owned by resource ${resourceId}`)
}
```

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/memory/query.mdx, after:

# query

Retrieves messages from a specific thread, with support for pagination and filtering options.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";

const memory = new Memory({
  /* config */
});

// Get last 50 messages
const { messages, uiMessages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    last: 50,
  },
});

// Get messages with context around specific messages
const { messages: contextMessages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    include: [
      {
        id: "msg-123", // Get just this message (no context)
      },
      {
        id: "msg-456", // Get this message with custom context
        withPreviousMessages: 3, // 3 messages before
        withNextMessages: 1, // 1 message after
      },
    ],
  },
});

// Semantic search in messages
const { messages } = await memory.query({
  threadId: "thread-123",
  selectBy: {
    vectorSearchString: "What was discussed about deployment?",
  },
  threadConfig: {
    historySearch: true,
  },
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "threadId",
      type: "string",
      description:
        "The unique identifier of the thread to retrieve messages from",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "resourceId",
      type: "string",
      description:
        "Optional ID of the resource that owns the thread. If provided, validates thread ownership",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "selectBy",
      type: "object",
      description: "Options for filtering messages",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "threadConfig",
      type: "MemoryConfig",
      description: "Configuration options for message retrieval",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### selectBy

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorSearchString",
      type: "string",
      description: "Search string for finding semantically similar messages",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "last",
      type: "number | false",
      description:
        "Number of most recent messages to retrieve. Set to false to disable limit. Note: threadConfig.lastMessages (default: 40) will override this if smaller.",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "40",
    },
    {
      name: "include",
      type: "array",
      description: "Array of message IDs to include with context",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

### include

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "string",
      description: "ID of the message to include",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "withPreviousMessages",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of messages to include before this message. Defaults to 2 when using vector search, 0 otherwise.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "withNextMessages",
      type: "number",
      description:
        "Number of messages to include after this message. Defaults to 2 when using vector search, 0 otherwise.",
      isOptional: true,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Returns

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "messages",
      type: "CoreMessage[]",
      description: "Array of retrieved messages in their core format",
    },
    {
      name: "uiMessages",
      type: "AiMessage[]",
      description: "Array of messages formatted for UI display",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Additional Notes

The `query` function returns two different message formats:

- `messages`: Core message format used internally
- `uiMessages`: Formatted messages suitable for UI display, including proper threading of tool calls and results

### Related

- [Memory](/docs/reference/memory/Memory.mdx)
