docs/src/pages/examples/rag/filter-rag.mdx, before:

---
title: "Example: Metadata Filtering | Retrieval | RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: Example of implementing a RAG system in Mastra using metadata filters to search for relevant chunks in the vector store.
---

import { GithubLink } from "../../../components/github-link";

# Metadata Filtering

This example demonstrates how to implement a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system using Mastra, OpenAI embeddings, and PGVector for vector storage.
This system uses metadata filters to search for relevant chunks in the vector store, reducing the amount of results returned.

## Overview

The system implements RAG using Mastra and OpenAI. Here's what it does:

1. Sets up a Mastra agent with gpt-4o-mini for response generation
2. Creates a vector query tool to manage vector store interactions
3. Chunks text documents into smaller segments
4. Creates embeddings for these chunks
5. Stores them in a PostgreSQL vector database
6. Retrieves relevant chunks based on queries using vector query tool
7. Generates context-aware responses using the Mastra agent

## Setup

### Environment Setup

Make sure to set up your environment variables:

```bash filename=".env"
POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING=your_connection_string_here
```

### Dependencies

Then, import the necessary dependencies:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from '@ai-sdk/openai';
import { Mastra } from '@mastra/core';
import { Agent } from '@mastra/core/agent';
import { OpenAI } from '@mastra/core/llm/openai';
import { createVectorQueryTool, MDocument, PGVECTOR_PROMPT } from '@mastra/rag';
import { PgVector } from '@mastra/pg';
import { embedMany } from 'ai';
```

## Vector Query Tool Creation

Using createVectorQueryTool imported from @mastra/rag, you can create a tool that can query the vector database with filtering capabilities.

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{9} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const vectorQueryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  id: 'vectorQueryTool',
  vectorStoreName: "pgVector",
  indexName: "embeddings",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  enableFilter: true,
});
```

## Document Processing

Create a document and process it into chunks:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{17} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const doc = MDocument.fromText(
  `The Impact of Climate Change on Global Agriculture...`
);

const chunks = await doc.chunk({
  strategy: 'recursive',
  size: 512,
  overlap: 50,
  separator: '\n',
  extract: {
    keywords: true,  // Extracts keywords from each chunk
  },
});
```

### Transform Chunks into Metadata

Transform chunks into metadata that can be filtered:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{31} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const chunkMetadata = chunks?.map((chunk: any, index: number) => ({
  text: chunk.text,
  ...chunk.metadata,
  nested: {
    keywords: chunk.metadata.excerptKeywords
      .replace('KEYWORDS:', '')
      .split(',')
      .map(k => k.trim()),
    id: index,
  },
}));
```

## Agent Configuration

Set up the Mastra agent that will handle the responses:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{43} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
export const ragAgent = new Agent({
  name: 'RAG Agent',
  model: openai('gpt-4o-mini'),
  instructions: `
  You are a helpful assistant that answers questions based on the provided context. Keep your answers concise and relevant.

  Use the vectorQueryTool to filter the context by searching the metadata.
  
  The metadata is structured as follows:

  {
    text: string,
    excerptKeywords: string,
    nested: {
      keywords: string[],
      id: number,
    },
  }

  ${PGVECTOR_PROMPT}
  `,
  tools: { vectorQueryTool },
});
```

We can provide an example of how the metadata is structured for the agent to use when filtering with the tool.

## Instantiate PgVector and Mastra

Instantiate PgVector and Mastra with all components:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{69} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const pgVector = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING!);

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { ragAgent },
  vectors: { pgVector },
});

const agent = mastra.getAgent('ragAgent');
```

## Creating and Storing Embeddings

Generate embeddings for the chunks and store them in the vector database along with their metadata:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{78} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const { embeddings } = await embedMany({
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  values: chunks.map(chunk => chunk.text),
});

const vectorStore = mastra.getVector('pgVector');
await vectorStore.createIndex('embeddings', 1536);

// Store both embeddings and metadata together
await vectorStore.upsert('embeddings', embeddings, chunkMetadata);
```

The `upsert` operation stores both the vector embeddings and their associated metadata, enabling combined semantic search and metadata filtering capabilities.

## Response Generation

Function to generate responses based on retrieved context:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{90} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function generateResponse(query: string) {
  const prompt = `
      Please answer the following question:
      ${query}

    Please base your answer only on the context provided in the tool.
    If the context doesn't contain enough information to fully answer the question, please state that explicitly.
      `;

  // Call the agent to generate a response
  const completion = await agent.generate(prompt);

  return completion.text;
}
```

## Example Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{105} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const queries = [
  "What adaptation strategies are mentioned? Use regex to search for the word 'adaptation' in the 'nested.keywords' field.",
  "Show me recent sections. Check the 'nested.id' field and return values that are greater than 2.",
  "Search the 'text' field using regex operator to find sections containing 'temperature'.",
];

async function answerQueries() {
  for (const query of queries) {
    try {
      // Generate and log the response
      const answer = await generateResponse(query);
      console.log('\nQuery:', query);
      console.log('Response:', answer);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error(`Error processing query "${query}":`, error);
    }
  }
}

await answerQueries();
```

<br />
<br />
<hr className="dark:border-[#404040] border-gray-300" />
<br />
<br />
<GithubLink
  link={
    "https://github.com/mastra-ai/mastra/blob/main/examples/basics/rag/filter-rag"
  }
/>

Commit message:

added updates to docs for agent driven metadata filtering

docs/src/pages/examples/rag/filter-rag.mdx, after:

---
title: "Example: Metadata Filtering | Retrieval | RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: Example of using a Mastra agent to dynamically construct and apply metadata filters for precise document retrieval.
---

import { GithubLink } from "../../../components/github-link";

# Agent-Driven Metadata Filtering

This example demonstrates how to implement a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system using Mastra, OpenAI embeddings, and PGVector for vector storage.
This system uses an agent to dynamically construct metadata filters from a user's query to search for relevant chunks in the vector store, reducing the amount of results returned.

## Overview

The system implements an intelligent RAG pipeline using Mastra and OpenAI, where an agent dynamically interprets queries and constructs appropriate metadata filters. Here's what it does:

1. Sets up a Mastra agent with gpt-4o-mini to understand queries and identify filter requirements
2. Creates a vector query tool to handle metadata filtering and semantic search
3. Processes documents into chunks with metadata and embeddings
4. Stores both vectors and metadata in PGVector for efficient retrieval
5. Processes queries by combining metadata filters with semantic search

When a user asks a question:
   - The agent analyzes the query to understand the intent
   - Constructs appropriate metadata filters (e.g., by topic, date, category)
   - Uses the vector query tool to find the most relevant information
   - Generates a contextual response based on the filtered results

## Setup

### Environment Setup

Make sure to set up your environment variables:

```bash filename=".env"
POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING=your_connection_string_here
```

### Dependencies

Then, import the necessary dependencies:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from '@ai-sdk/openai';
import { Mastra } from '@mastra/core';
import { Agent } from '@mastra/core/agent';
import { OpenAI } from '@mastra/core/llm/openai';
import { createVectorQueryTool, MDocument, PGVECTOR_PROMPT } from '@mastra/rag';
import { PgVector } from '@mastra/pg';
import { embedMany } from 'ai';
```

## Vector Query Tool Creation

Using createVectorQueryTool imported from @mastra/rag, you can create a tool that enables the agent to query the vector database with filtering capabilities.

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{9} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const vectorQueryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  id: 'vectorQueryTool',
  vectorStoreName: "pgVector",
  indexName: "embeddings",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  enableFilter: true,
});
```

## Document Processing

Create a document and process it into chunks:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{17} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const doc = MDocument.fromText(
  `The Impact of Climate Change on Global Agriculture...`
);

const chunks = await doc.chunk({
  strategy: 'recursive',
  size: 512,
  overlap: 50,
  separator: '\n',
  extract: {
    keywords: true,  // Extracts keywords from each chunk
  },
});
```

### Transform Chunks into Metadata

Transform chunks into metadata that can be filtered:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{31} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const chunkMetadata = chunks?.map((chunk: any, index: number) => ({
  text: chunk.text,
  ...chunk.metadata,
  nested: {
    keywords: chunk.metadata.excerptKeywords
      .replace('KEYWORDS:', '')
      .split(',')
      .map(k => k.trim()),
    id: index,
  },
}));
```

## Agent Configuration

The agent is configured to understand user queries and translate them into appropriate metadata filters.

In our instructions we do the following:
- Provide the agent with the metadata structure so that it knows the fields available for filtering.
- Provide a prompt (e.g. PGVECTOR_PROMPT) that provides the agent with filter operations and syntax for the vector store queries.

> Note: Different vector stores have specific prompts available. See [Vector Store Prompts](../../docs/reference/tools/vector-query-tool#vector-store-prompts) for details.

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{43} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
export const ragAgent = new Agent({
  name: 'RAG Agent',
  model: openai('gpt-4o-mini'),
  instructions: `
  You are a helpful assistant that answers questions based on the provided context. Keep your answers concise and relevant.

  Use the vectorQueryTool to filter the context by searching the metadata.
  
  The metadata is structured as follows:

  {
    text: string,
    excerptKeywords: string,
    nested: {
      keywords: string[],
      id: number,
    },
  }

  ${PGVECTOR_PROMPT}
  `,
  tools: { vectorQueryTool },
});
```

The agent's instructions are designed to:
- Process user queries to identify filter requirements
- Use the metadata structure to find relevant information
- Apply appropriate filters through the vectorQueryTool and the provided vector store prompt
- Generate responses based on the filtered context

## Instantiate PgVector and Mastra

Instantiate PgVector and Mastra with all components:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{69} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const pgVector = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING!);

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { ragAgent },
  vectors: { pgVector },
});

const agent = mastra.getAgent('ragAgent');
```

## Creating and Storing Embeddings

Generate embeddings for the chunks and store them in the vector database along with their metadata:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{78} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const { embeddings } = await embedMany({
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  values: chunks.map(chunk => chunk.text),
});

const vectorStore = mastra.getVector('pgVector');
await vectorStore.createIndex('embeddings', 1536);

// Store both embeddings and metadata together
await vectorStore.upsert('embeddings', embeddings, chunkMetadata);
```

The `upsert` operation stores both the vector embeddings and their associated metadata, enabling combined semantic search and metadata filtering capabilities.

## Response Generation

Function to generate responses based on retrieved context:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{90} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function generateResponse(query: string) {
  const prompt = `
      Please answer the following question:
      ${query}

    Please base your answer only on the context provided in the tool.
    If the context doesn't contain enough information to fully answer the question, please state that explicitly.
      `;

  // Call the agent to generate a response
  const completion = await agent.generate(prompt);

  return completion.text;
}
```

## Example Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{105} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const queries = [
  "What adaptation strategies are mentioned? Use regex to search for the word 'adaptation' in the 'nested.keywords' field.",
  "Show me recent sections. Check the 'nested.id' field and return values that are greater than 2.",
  "Search the 'text' field using regex operator to find sections containing 'temperature'.",
];

async function answerQueries() {
  for (const query of queries) {
    try {
      // Generate and log the response
      const answer = await generateResponse(query);
      console.log('\nQuery:', query);
      console.log('Response:', answer);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error(`Error processing query "${query}":`, error);
    }
  }
}

await answerQueries();
```

<br />
<br />
<hr className="dark:border-[#404040] border-gray-300" />
<br />
<br />
<GithubLink
  link={
    "https://github.com/mastra-ai/mastra/blob/main/examples/basics/rag/filter-rag"
  }
/>
