docs/src/pages/examples/rag/rerank-rag.mdx, before:

---
title: "Example: Re-ranking Results | Retrieval | RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: Example of implementing a RAG system with re-ranking in Mastra using OpenAI embeddings and PGVector for vector storage.
---

import { GithubLink } from "../../../components/github-link";

# Re-ranking Results

This example demonstrates how to implement a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system with re-ranking using Mastra, OpenAI embeddings, and PGVector for vector storage.

## Overview

The system implements RAG with re-ranking using Mastra and OpenAI. Here's what it does:

1. Sets up a Mastra agent with gpt-4o-mini for response generation
2. Creates a vector query tool with re-ranking capabilities
3. Chunks text documents into smaller segments
4. Creates embeddings for these chunks
5. Stores them in a PostgreSQL vector database
6. Retrieves and re-ranks relevant chunks based on queries
7. Generates context-aware responses using the Mastra agent

## Setup

### Environment Setup

Make sure to set up your environment variables:

```bash filename=".env"
POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING=your_connection_string_here
```

### Dependencies

Then, import the necessary dependencies:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { PgVector } from "@mastra/pg";
import { MDocument, createVectorQueryTool } from "@mastra/rag";
import { embedMany } from "ai";
```

## Vector Query Tool Creation with Re-ranking

Using createVectorQueryTool imported from @mastra/rag, you can create a tool that can query the vector database and re-rank results:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{8} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const vectorQueryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pgVector",
  indexName: "embeddings",
  model: openai.embedding("text-embedding-3-small"),
  reranker: {
    model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  },
});
```

## Agent Configuration

Set up the Mastra agent that will handle the responses:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{17} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";

export const ragAgent = new Agent({
  name: "RAG Agent",
  instructions:
    "You are a helpful assistant that answers questions based on the provided context. Keep your answers concise and relevant.",
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  tools: {
    vectorQueryTool,
  },
});
```

## Instantiate PgVector and Mastra

Instantiate PgVector and Mastra with all components:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{29} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const pgVector = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING!);

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { ragAgent },
  vectors: { pgVector },
});

const agent = mastra.getAgent("ragAgent");
```

## Document Processing

Create a document and process it into chunks:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{38} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const doc1 = MDocument.fromText(`
market data shows price resistance levels.
technical charts display moving averages.
support levels guide trading decisions.
breakout patterns signal entry points.
price action determines trade timing.

baseball cards show gradual value increase.
rookie cards command premium prices.
card condition affects resale value.
authentication prevents fake trading.
grading services verify card quality.

volume analysis confirms price trends.
sports cards track seasonal demand.
chart patterns predict movements.
mint condition doubles card worth.
resistance breaks trigger orders.
rare cards appreciate yearly.
`);

const chunks = await doc1.chunk({
  strategy: "recursive",
  size: 150,
  overlap: 20,
  separator: "\n",
});
```

## Creating and Storing Embeddings

Generate embeddings for the chunks and store them in the vector database:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{66} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const { embeddings } = await embedMany({
  values: chunks.map(chunk => chunk.text),
  model: openai.embedding("text-embedding-3-small"),
});

const vectorStore = mastra.getVector("pgVector");

await vectorStore.createIndex("embeddings", 1536);

await vectorStore.upsert(
  "embeddings",
  embeddings,
  chunks?.map((chunk: any) => ({ text: chunk.text })),
);
```

## Response Generation

Function to generate responses based on retrieved and re-ranked context:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{82} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function generateResponse(query: string) {
  const prompt = `
      Please answer the following question:
      ${query}

      Please base your answer only on the context provided in the tool. If the context doesn't 
      contain enough information to fully answer the question, please state that explicitly.
      `;

  const completion = await agent.generate(prompt);
  return completion.text;
}
```

## Example Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{95} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function answerQueries(queries: string[]) {
  for (const query of queries) {
    try {
      const answer = await generateResponse(query);
      console.log("\nQuery:", query);
      console.log("Response:", answer);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error(`Error processing query "${query}":`, error);
    }
  }
}

const queries = [
  "explain technical trading analysis",
  "explain trading card valuation",
  "how do you analyze market resistance",
];

await answerQueries(queries);
```

Commit message:

Rerank example doc update (#1943)
This PR adds an example of rerank without the vector query tool, and
updates rerank in retrieval.mdx to use rerank rather than the vector
query tool.

docs/src/pages/examples/rag/rerank-rag.mdx, after:

---
title: "Example: Re-ranking Results with Tools | Retrieval | RAG | Mastra Docs"
description: Example of implementing a RAG system with re-ranking in Mastra using OpenAI embeddings and PGVector for vector storage.
---

import { GithubLink } from "../../../components/github-link";

# Re-ranking Results with Tools

This example demonstrates how to use Mastra's vector query tool in order to implement a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system with re-ranking using OpenAI embeddings, and PGVector for vector storage.

## Overview

The system implements RAG with re-ranking using Mastra's vector query tool and OpenAI. Here's what it does:

1. Sets up a Mastra agent with gpt-4o-mini for response generation
2. Creates a vector query tool with re-ranking capabilities
3. Chunks text documents into smaller segments and creates embeddings from them
4. Stores them in a PostgreSQL vector database
5. Retrieves and re-ranks relevant chunks based on queries
6. Generates context-aware responses using the Mastra agent

## Setup

### Environment Setup

Make sure to set up your environment variables:

```bash filename=".env"
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING=your_connection_string_here
```

### Dependencies

Then, import the necessary dependencies:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { Mastra } from "@mastra/core";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { PgVector } from "@mastra/pg";
import { MDocument, createVectorQueryTool } from "@mastra/rag";
import { embedMany } from "ai";
```

## Vector Query Tool Creation with Re-ranking

Using createVectorQueryTool imported from @mastra/rag, you can create a tool that can query the vector database and re-rank results:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{8} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const vectorQueryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pgVector",
  indexName: "embeddings",
  model: openai.embedding("text-embedding-3-small"),
  reranker: {
    model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  },
});
```

## Agent Configuration

Set up the Mastra agent that will handle the responses:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{17} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";

export const ragAgent = new Agent({
  name: "RAG Agent",
  instructions:
    "You are a helpful assistant that answers questions based on the provided context. Keep your answers concise and relevant.",
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
  tools: {
    vectorQueryTool,
  },
});
```

## Instantiate PgVector and Mastra

Instantiate PgVector and Mastra with all components:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{29} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const pgVector = new PgVector(process.env.POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING!);

export const mastra = new Mastra({
  agents: { ragAgent },
  vectors: { pgVector },
});

const agent = mastra.getAgent("ragAgent");
```

## Document Processing

Create a document and process it into chunks:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{38} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const doc1 = MDocument.fromText(`
market data shows price resistance levels.
technical charts display moving averages.
support levels guide trading decisions.
breakout patterns signal entry points.
price action determines trade timing.

baseball cards show gradual value increase.
rookie cards command premium prices.
card condition affects resale value.
authentication prevents fake trading.
grading services verify card quality.

volume analysis confirms price trends.
sports cards track seasonal demand.
chart patterns predict movements.
mint condition doubles card worth.
resistance breaks trigger orders.
rare cards appreciate yearly.
`);

const chunks = await doc1.chunk({
  strategy: "recursive",
  size: 150,
  overlap: 20,
  separator: "\n",
});
```

## Creating and Storing Embeddings

Generate embeddings for the chunks and store them in the vector database:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{66} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
const { embeddings } = await embedMany({
  values: chunks.map(chunk => chunk.text),
  model: openai.embedding("text-embedding-3-small"),
});

const vectorStore = mastra.getVector("pgVector");

await vectorStore.createIndex("embeddings", 1536);

await vectorStore.upsert(
  "embeddings",
  embeddings,
  chunks?.map((chunk: any) => ({ text: chunk.text })),
);
```

## Response Generation

Function to generate responses based on retrieved and re-ranked context:

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{82} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function generateResponse(query: string) {
  const prompt = `
      Please answer the following question:
      ${query}

      Please base your answer only on the context provided in the tool. If the context doesn't 
      contain enough information to fully answer the question, please state that explicitly.
      `;

  const completion = await agent.generate(prompt);
  return completion.text;
}
```

## Example Usage

```typescript copy showLineNumbers{95} filename="src/mastra/index.ts"
async function answerQueries(queries: string[]) {
  for (const query of queries) {
    try {
      const answer = await generateResponse(query);
      console.log("\nQuery:", query);
      console.log("Response:", answer);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error(`Error processing query "${query}":`, error);
    }
  }
}

const queries = [
  "explain technical trading analysis",
  "explain trading card valuation",
  "how do you analyze market resistance",
];

await answerQueries(queries);
```
<br />
<br />
<hr className="dark:border-[#404040] border-gray-300" />
<br />
<br />
<GithubLink
  link={
    "https://github.com/mastra-ai/mastra/blob/main/examples/basics/rag/rerank-rag"
  }
/>
