docs/src/pages/docs/reference/cli/build.mdx, before:

---
title: "mastra build"
description: "Build your Mastra project for production deployment"
---

The `mastra build` command bundles your Mastra project into a production-ready Hono server. Hono is a lightweight web framework that provides type-safe routing and middleware support, making it ideal for deploying Mastra agents as HTTP endpoints.

## Usage

```bash
mastra build [options]
```

## Options

- `--dir <path>`: Directory containing your Mastra project (default: current directory)

## What It Does

1. Locates your Mastra entry file (either `src/mastra/index.ts` or `src/mastra/index.js`)
2. Creates a `.mastra` output directory
3. Bundles your code using Rollup with:
   - Tree shaking for optimal bundle size
   - Node.js environment targeting
   - Source map generation for debugging

## Example

```bash
# Build from current directory
mastra build

# Build from specific directory
mastra build --dir ./my-mastra-project
```

## Output

The command generates a production bundle in the `.mastra` directory, which includes:
- A Hono-based HTTP server with your Mastra agents exposed as endpoints
- Bundled JavaScript files optimized for production
- Source maps for debugging
- Required dependencies

This output is suitable for:
- Deploying to cloud servers (EC2, Digital Ocean)
- Running in containerized environments
- Using with container orchestration systems

Commit message:

feat: Add port configuration support for build command - Add port CLI option, update BuildBundler, and documentation

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/cli/build.mdx, after:

---
title: "mastra build"
description: "Build your Mastra project for production deployment"
---

The `mastra build` command bundles your Mastra project into a production-ready Hono server. Hono is a lightweight web framework that provides type-safe routing and middleware support, making it ideal for deploying Mastra agents as HTTP endpoints.

## Usage

```bash
mastra build [options]
```

## Options

- `--dir <path>`: Directory containing your Mastra project (default: current directory)
- `--port <number>`: Port number for the server (default: 4111)

## What It Does

1. Locates your Mastra entry file (either `src/mastra/index.ts` or `src/mastra/index.js`)
2. Creates a `.mastra` output directory
3. Bundles your code using Rollup with:
   - Tree shaking for optimal bundle size
   - Node.js environment targeting
   - Source map generation for debugging

## Example

```bash
# Build from current directory
mastra build

# Build from specific directory
mastra build --dir ./my-mastra-project

# Build with custom port
mastra build --port 3000
```

## Port Configuration

The server port can be configured in three ways, in order of precedence:
1. Command line argument: `--port 3000`
2. Environment variable: `PORT=3000`
3. Default value: `4111`

## Output

The command generates a production bundle in the `.mastra` directory, which includes:
- A Hono-based HTTP server with your Mastra agents exposed as endpoints
- Bundled JavaScript files optimized for production
- Source maps for debugging
- Required dependencies

This output is suitable for:
- Deploying to cloud servers (EC2, Digital Ocean)
- Running in containerized environments
- Using with container orchestration systems
