docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/client.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: MastraMCPClient | Tool Discovery | Mastra Docs"
description: API Reference for MastraMCPClient - A client implementation for the Model Context Protocol.
---

# MastraMCPClient

The `MastraMCPClient` class provides a client implementation for interacting with Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers. It handles connection management, resource discovery, and tool execution through the MCP protocol.

## Constructor

Creates a new instance of the MastraMCPClient.

```typescript
constructor({
    name,
    version = '1.0.0',
    server,
    capabilities = {},
}: {
    name: string;
    server: StdioServerParameters | SSEClientParameters;
    capabilities?: ClientCapabilities;
    version?: string;
})
```

### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: 'name',
      type: 'string',
      description: 'The name identifier for this client instance.',
    },
    {
      name: 'version',
      type: 'string',
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: '1.0.0',
      description: 'The version of the client.',
    },
    {
      name: 'server',
      type: 'StdioServerParameters | SSEClientParameters',
      description: 'Configuration parameters for either a stdio server connection or an SSE server connection.',
    },
    {
      name: 'capabilities',
      type: 'ClientCapabilities',
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: '{}',
      description: 'Optional capabilities configuration for the client.',
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### connect()

Establishes a connection with the MCP server.

```typescript
async connect(): Promise<void>
```

### disconnect()

Closes the connection with the MCP server.

```typescript
async disconnect(): Promise<void>
```

### resources()

Retrieves the list of available resources from the server.

```typescript
async resources(): Promise<ListResourcesResult>
```

### tools()

Fetches and initializes available tools from the server, converting them into Mastra-compatible tool formats.

```typescript
async tools(): Promise<Record<string, Tool>>
```

Returns an object mapping tool names to their corresponding Mastra tool implementations.

## Examples

### Using with Mastra Agent

#### Example with Stdio Server

```typescript
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { MastraMCPClient } from "@mastra/mcp";
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";

// Initialize the MCP client using mcp/fetch as an example https://hub.docker.com/r/mcp/fetch
// Visit https://github.com/docker/mcp-servers for other reference docker mcp servers
const fetchClient = new MastraMCPClient({
  name: "fetch",
  server: {
    command: "docker",
    args: ["run", "-i", "--rm", "mcp/fetch"],
  },
});

// Create a Mastra Agent
const agent = new Agent({
  name: "Fetch agent",
  instructions:
    "You are able to fetch data from URLs on demand and discuss the response data with the user.",
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
});

try {
  // Connect to the MCP server
  await fetchClient.connect();

  // Gracefully handle process exits so the docker subprocess is cleaned up
  process.on("exit", () => {
    fetchClient.disconnect();
  });

  // Get available tools
  const tools = await fetchClient.tools();

  // Use the agent with the MCP tools
  const response = await agent.generate(
    "Tell me about mastra.ai/docs. Tell me generally what this page is and the content it includes.",
    {
      toolsets: {
        fetch: tools,
      },
    },
  );

  console.log("\n\n" + response.text);
} catch (error) {
  console.error("Error:", error);
} finally {
  // Always disconnect when done
  await fetchClient.disconnect();
}
```

#### Example with SSE Server

```typescript
// Initialize the MCP client using an SSE server
const sseClient = new MastraMCPClient({
  name: "sse-client",
  server: {
    url: new URL("https://your-mcp-server.com/sse"),
    // Optional fetch request configuration
    requestInit: {
      headers: {
        "Authorization": "Bearer your-token"
      }
    }
  },
});

// The rest of the usage is identical to the stdio example
```

## Related Information

- For more details about the Model Context Protocol, see the [@modelcontextprotocol/sdk documentation](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk).

Commit message:

feat(@mastra/mcp): MCPConfiguration class (#2845)
This PR:
1. Adds the new `MCPConfiguration` class from
https://github.com/mastra-ai/mastra/blob/main/explorations/mcp-registry-client/README.md
(minus the registry part)
2. tests for new class
3. updates docs, adds a code example (will add an example docs page next
week). shows using tools vs toolsets and why/when you would use each
4. fixed a couple bugs in MastraMCPClient class
- Passing server.env config would break commands like npx since `PATH`
wasn't being passed in
- There was no graceful shutdown when the process exited - so code saves
would print massive errors from mcp servers when running `mastra dev`

Example:
```ts
const mcp = new MCPConfiguration({
  servers: {
    stockPrice: {
      command: 'npx',
      args: ['-y', 'tsx', './src/mastra/tools/stock-price.ts'],
      env: {
        FAKE_CREDS: 'let me in!',
      },
    },
    weather: {
      url: new URL('http://localhost:8080/sse'),
    },
  },
});

const toolsets = await mcp.getConnectedToolsets();
const tools = await mcp.getConnectedTools();
```

screenshot from running the cli code example (also works with `mastra
dev`)
<img width="1646" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-07 at 4 38 50 PM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac64487c-360d-455a-b0b2-04d2c62355ea"
/>

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/client.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: MastraMCPClient | Tool Discovery | Mastra Docs"
description: API Reference for MastraMCPClient - A client implementation for the Model Context Protocol.
---

# MastraMCPClient

The `MastraMCPClient` class provides a client implementation for interacting with Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers. It handles connection management, resource discovery, and tool execution through the MCP protocol.

## Constructor

Creates a new instance of the MastraMCPClient.

```typescript
constructor({
    name,
    version = '1.0.0',
    server,
    capabilities = {},
}: {
    name: string;
    server: StdioServerParameters | SSEClientParameters;
    capabilities?: ClientCapabilities;
    version?: string;
})
```

### Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "name",
      type: "string",
      description: "The name identifier for this client instance.",
    },
    {
      name: "version",
      type: "string",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1.0.0",
      description: "The version of the client.",
    },
    {
      name: "server",
      type: "StdioServerParameters | SSEClientParameters",
      description:
        "Configuration parameters for either a stdio server connection or an SSE server connection.",
    },
    {
      name: "capabilities",
      type: "ClientCapabilities",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "{}",
      description: "Optional capabilities configuration for the client.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Methods

### connect()

Establishes a connection with the MCP server.

```typescript
async connect(): Promise<void>
```

### disconnect()

Closes the connection with the MCP server.

```typescript
async disconnect(): Promise<void>
```

### resources()

Retrieves the list of available resources from the server.

```typescript
async resources(): Promise<ListResourcesResult>
```

### tools()

Fetches and initializes available tools from the server, converting them into Mastra-compatible tool formats.

```typescript
async tools(): Promise<Record<string, Tool>>
```

Returns an object mapping tool names to their corresponding Mastra tool implementations.

## Examples

### Using with Mastra Agent

#### Example with Stdio Server

```typescript
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { MastraMCPClient } from "@mastra/mcp";
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";

// Initialize the MCP client using mcp/fetch as an example https://hub.docker.com/r/mcp/fetch
// Visit https://github.com/docker/mcp-servers for other reference docker mcp servers
const fetchClient = new MastraMCPClient({
  name: "fetch",
  server: {
    command: "docker",
    args: ["run", "-i", "--rm", "mcp/fetch"],
  },
});

// Create a Mastra Agent
const agent = new Agent({
  name: "Fetch agent",
  instructions:
    "You are able to fetch data from URLs on demand and discuss the response data with the user.",
  model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
});

try {
  // Connect to the MCP server
  await fetchClient.connect();

  // Gracefully handle process exits so the docker subprocess is cleaned up
  process.on("exit", () => {
    fetchClient.disconnect();
  });

  // Get available tools
  const tools = await fetchClient.tools();

  // Use the agent with the MCP tools
  const response = await agent.generate(
    "Tell me about mastra.ai/docs. Tell me generally what this page is and the content it includes.",
    {
      toolsets: {
        fetch: tools,
      },
    },
  );

  console.log("\n\n" + response.text);
} catch (error) {
  console.error("Error:", error);
} finally {
  // Always disconnect when done
  await fetchClient.disconnect();
}
```

#### Example with SSE Server

```typescript
// Initialize the MCP client using an SSE server
const sseClient = new MastraMCPClient({
  name: "sse-client",
  server: {
    url: new URL("https://your-mcp-server.com/sse"),
    // Optional fetch request configuration
    requestInit: {
      headers: {
        Authorization: "Bearer your-token",
      },
    },
  },
});

// The rest of the usage is identical to the stdio example
```

## Related Information

- For managing multiple MCP servers in your application, see the [MCPConfiguration documentation](./configuration)
- For more details about the Model Context Protocol, see the [@modelcontextprotocol/sdk documentation](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk).
