docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/graph-rag-tool.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: createGraphRAGTool() | RAG | Mastra Tools Docs"
description: Documentation for the Graph RAG Tool in Mastra, which enhances RAG by building a graph of semantic relationships between documents.
---

# createGraphRAGTool()

The `createGraphRAGTool()` creates a tool that enhances RAG by building a graph of semantic relationships between documents. It uses the `GraphRAG` system under the hood to provide graph-based retrieval, finding relevant content through both direct similarity and connected relationships.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { createGraphRAGTool } from "@mastra/rag";

const graphTool = createGraphRAGTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  graphOptions: {
    dimension: 1536,
    threshold: 0.7,
    randomWalkSteps: 100,
    restartProb: 0.15
  }
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorStoreName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the vector store to query",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "indexName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the index within the vector store",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description: "Embedding model to use for vector search",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "graphOptions",
      type: "GraphOptions",
      description: "Configuration for the graph-based retrieval",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Default graph options",
    }
  ]}
/>

### GraphOptions

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "dimension",
      type: "number",
      description: "Dimension of the embedding vectors",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1536",
    },
    {
      name: "threshold",
      type: "number",
      description: "Similarity threshold for creating edges between nodes (0-1)",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "0.7",
    },
    {
      name: "randomWalkSteps",
      type: "number",
      description: "Number of steps in random walk for graph traversal",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "100",
    },
    {
      name: "restartProb",
      type: "number",
      description: "Probability of restarting random walk from query node",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "0.15",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns
The tool returns an object with:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "relevantContext",
      type: "string",
      description: "Combined text from the most relevant document chunks, retrieved using graph-based ranking",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Advanced Example

```typescript
const graphTool = createGraphRAGTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  graphOptions: {
    dimension: 1536,
    threshold: 0.8,        // Higher similarity threshold
    randomWalkSteps: 200,  // More exploration steps
    restartProb: 0.2      // Higher restart probability
  }
});
```

## Related

- [createVectorQueryTool](./vector-query-tool)
- [GraphRAG](../rag/graph-rag)

Commit message:

[MASTRA-2031] Update Vector tool and Graph Rag Tool descriptions (#2737)
The descriptions for the vector query tool was too verbose, and covered
too many implementation details regarding topK and filtering.

As a result, the agent has a hard time choosing to use this tool
properly unless it is explicitly specified in the instructions.

The change made was to simplify the tool description, making it more
clear on when it should be used, as well as update the input schema to
properly describe what the tool should do regarding topK and filters.
These same improvements are utilized by the graph rag tool as well.
Making the tools easier for the agent to select.

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/graph-rag-tool.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: createGraphRAGTool() | RAG | Mastra Tools Docs"
description: Documentation for the Graph RAG Tool in Mastra, which enhances RAG by building a graph of semantic relationships between documents.
---

# createGraphRAGTool()

The `createGraphRAGTool()` creates a tool that enhances RAG by building a graph of semantic relationships between documents. It uses the `GraphRAG` system under the hood to provide graph-based retrieval, finding relevant content through both direct similarity and connected relationships.

## Usage Example

```typescript
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { createGraphRAGTool } from "@mastra/rag";

const graphTool = createGraphRAGTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  graphOptions: {
    dimension: 1536,
    threshold: 0.7,
    randomWalkSteps: 100,
    restartProb: 0.15
  }
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorStoreName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the vector store to query",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "indexName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the index within the vector store",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description: "Embedding model to use for vector search",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "graphOptions",
      type: "GraphOptions",
      description: "Configuration for the graph-based retrieval",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "Default graph options",
    },
    {
      name: "description",
      type: "string",
      description: "Custom description for the tool. By default: 'Access and analyze relationships between information in the knowledge base to answer complex questions about connections and patterns'",
      isOptional: true,
    }
  ]}
/>

### GraphOptions

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "dimension",
      type: "number",
      description: "Dimension of the embedding vectors",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "1536",
    },
    {
      name: "threshold",
      type: "number",
      description: "Similarity threshold for creating edges between nodes (0-1)",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "0.7",
    },
    {
      name: "randomWalkSteps",
      type: "number",
      description: "Number of steps in random walk for graph traversal",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "100",
    },
    {
      name: "restartProb",
      type: "number",
      description: "Probability of restarting random walk from query node",
      isOptional: true,
      defaultValue: "0.15",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns
The tool returns an object with:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "relevantContext",
      type: "string",
      description: "Combined text from the most relevant document chunks, retrieved using graph-based ranking",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Default Tool Description

The default description focuses on:
- Analyzing relationships between documents
- Finding patterns and connections
- Answering complex queries

## Advanced Example

```typescript
const graphTool = createGraphRAGTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  graphOptions: {
    dimension: 1536,
    threshold: 0.8,        // Higher similarity threshold
    randomWalkSteps: 200,  // More exploration steps
    restartProb: 0.2      // Higher restart probability
  }
});
```

## Example with Custom Description

```typescript
const graphTool = createGraphRAGTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  description: "Analyze document relationships to find complex patterns and connections in our company's historical data"
});
```

This example shows how to customize the tool description for a specific use case while maintaining its core purpose of relationship analysis.

## Related

- [createVectorQueryTool](./vector-query-tool)
- [GraphRAG](../rag/graph-rag)
