docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/vector-query-tool.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reference: createVectorQueryTool() | RAG | Mastra Tools Docs"
description: Documentation for the Vector Query Tool in Mastra, which facilitates semantic search over vector stores with filtering and reranking capabilities.
---

# createVectorQueryTool()

The `createVectorQueryTool()` function creates a tool for semantic search over vector stores. It supports filtering, reranking, and integrates with various vector store backends.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { openai } from '@ai-sdk/openai';
import { createVectorQueryTool } from "@mastra/rag";

const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorStoreName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the vector store to query (must be configured in Mastra)",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "indexName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the index within the vector store",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description: "Embedding model to use for vector search",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "reranker",
      type: "RerankConfig",
      description: "Options for reranking results",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "string",
      description: "Custom ID for the tool (defaults to 'VectorQuery {vectorStoreName} {indexName} Tool')",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "description",
      type: "string",
      description: "Custom description for the tool (by default, provides instructions for querying the vector store with examples of filtering and reranking if enabled)",
      isOptional: true,
    }
  ]}
/>

### RerankConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "LanguageModelV1",
      description: "Language model to use for reranking",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "RerankerOptions",
      description: "Options for the reranking process",
      isOptional: true,
      properties: [
        {
          type: "object",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "weights",
              description: "Weights for scoring components (semantic: 0.4, vector: 0.4, position: 0.2)",
              isOptional: true,
              type: "WeightConfig",
            },
            {
              name: "topK",
              description: "Number of top results to return",
              isOptional: true,
              type: "number",
              defaultValue: "3"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

The tool returns an object with:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "relevantContext",
      type: "string",
      description: "Combined text from the most relevant document chunks",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Default Tool Description

The default tool description provides:
- Instructions for querying the specified vector store
- Examples of filter syntax when filtering is enabled

## Example with Filters

```typescript
const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  enableFilters: true,
});
```

The tool processes queries with metadata filtering when enabled:
- Filter conditions are specified in the user's query
- Number of results can be customized with in the user query (default: 10)
- Filters are automatically translated for each vector store's requirements

For detailed filter syntax and store-specific capabilities, see the [Metadata Filters](../rag/metadata-filters) documentation.

## Example with Reranking

```typescript
const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "milvus",
  indexName: "documentation",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  reranker: {
    model: openai('gpt-4o-mini'),
    options: {
      weights: {
        semantic: 0.5,  // Semantic relevance weight
        vector: 0.3,    // Vector similarity weight
        position: 0.2   // Original position weight
      },
      topK: 5
    }
  }
});
```

Reranking improves result quality by combining:
- Semantic relevance: Using LLM-based scoring of text similarity
- Vector similarity: Original vector distance scores
- Position bias: Consideration of original result ordering
- Query analysis: Adjustments based on query characteristics

The reranker processes the initial vector search results and returns a reordered list optimized for relevance.

## Tool Details

The tool is created with:
- **ID**: `VectorQuery {vectorStoreName} {indexName} Tool`
- **Input Schema**: Requires queryText and filter objects
- **Output Schema**: Returns relevantContext string

## Related

- [rerank()](../rag/rerank) 
- [createGraphRAGTool](./graph-rag-tool)

Commit message:

added updates to docs for agent driven metadata filtering (#1837)

docs/src/pages/docs/reference/tools/vector-query-tool.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reference: createVectorQueryTool() | RAG | Mastra Tools Docs"
description: Documentation for the Vector Query Tool in Mastra, which facilitates semantic search over vector stores with filtering and reranking capabilities.
---

# createVectorQueryTool()

The `createVectorQueryTool()` function creates a tool for semantic search over vector stores. It supports filtering, reranking, and integrates with various vector store backends.

## Basic Usage

```typescript
import { openai } from '@ai-sdk/openai';
import { createVectorQueryTool } from "@mastra/rag";

const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
});
```

## Parameters

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "vectorStoreName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the vector store to query (must be configured in Mastra)",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "indexName",
      type: "string",
      description: "Name of the index within the vector store",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "EmbeddingModel",
      description: "Embedding model to use for vector search",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "reranker",
      type: "RerankConfig",
      description: "Options for reranking results",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "id",
      type: "string",
      description: "Custom ID for the tool (defaults to 'VectorQuery {vectorStoreName} {indexName} Tool')",
      isOptional: true,
    },
    {
      name: "description",
      type: "string",
      description: "Custom description for the tool (by default, provides instructions for querying the vector store with examples of filtering and reranking if enabled)",
      isOptional: true,
    }
  ]}
/>

### RerankConfig

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "model",
      type: "LanguageModelV1",
      description: "Language model to use for reranking",
      isOptional: false,
    },
    {
      name: "options",
      type: "RerankerOptions",
      description: "Options for the reranking process",
      isOptional: true,
      properties: [
        {
          type: "object",
          parameters: [
            {
              name: "weights",
              description: "Weights for scoring components (semantic: 0.4, vector: 0.4, position: 0.2)",
              isOptional: true,
              type: "WeightConfig",
            },
            {
              name: "topK",
              description: "Number of top results to return",
              isOptional: true,
              type: "number",
              defaultValue: "3"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]}
/>

## Returns

The tool returns an object with:

<PropertiesTable
  content={[
    {
      name: "relevantContext",
      type: "string",
      description: "Combined text from the most relevant document chunks",
    }
  ]}
/>

## Default Tool Description

The default tool description provides:
- Instructions for querying the specified vector store
- Examples of filter syntax when filtering is enabled

## Result Handling

The tool determines the number of results to return based on the user's query, with a default of 10 results. This can be adjusted based on the query requirements.

## Example with Filters

```typescript
const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "pinecone",
  indexName: "docs",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  enableFilters: true,
});
```

With filtering enabled, the tool processes queries to construct metadata filters that combine with semantic search. The process works as follows:

1. A user makes a query with specific filter requirements like "Find content where the 'version' field is greater than 2.0"
2. The agent analyzes the query and constructs the appropriate filters:
   ```typescript
   {
      "version": { "$gt": 2.0 }
   }
   ```

This agent-driven approach:
- Processes natural language queries into filter specifications
- Implements vector store-specific filter syntax
- Translates query terms to filter operators

For detailed filter syntax and store-specific capabilities, see the [Metadata Filters](../rag/metadata-filters) documentation.

For an example of how agent-driven filtering works, see the [Agent-Driven Metadata Filtering](../../../examples/rag/filter-rag) example.

## Example with Reranking

```typescript
const queryTool = createVectorQueryTool({
  vectorStoreName: "milvus",
  indexName: "documentation",
  model: openai.embedding('text-embedding-3-small'),
  reranker: {
    model: openai('gpt-4o-mini'),
    options: {
      weights: {
        semantic: 0.5,  // Semantic relevance weight
        vector: 0.3,    // Vector similarity weight
        position: 0.2   // Original position weight
      },
      topK: 5
    }
  }
});
```

Reranking improves result quality by combining:
- Semantic relevance: Using LLM-based scoring of text similarity
- Vector similarity: Original vector distance scores
- Position bias: Consideration of original result ordering
- Query analysis: Adjustments based on query characteristics

The reranker processes the initial vector search results and returns a reordered list optimized for relevance.

## Tool Details

The tool is created with:
- **ID**: `VectorQuery {vectorStoreName} {indexName} Tool`
- **Input Schema**: Requires queryText and filter objects
- **Output Schema**: Returns relevantContext string

## Related

- [rerank()](../rag/rerank) 
- [createGraphRAGTool](./graph-rag-tool)
